 
 
269 
资源和环境 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Cultivated Land  refers to the land that mainly for the 
regular cultivation of farm crops by using the surface tillage 
layer, planting more than one harvest a year (including 
perennial crops cultivated by more than one harvest a year), 
including cultivated land, newly-developed land, reclaimed 
land, consolidated land, fallow; It covers the land with some 
fruit trees, mulberry trees and others; It also covers fixed ditch, 
canal, road and sill (ridge) with width less than 1 meter in the 
South and 2 meters in the North; It covers the land for thermal 
insulation and moisturizing facilities such as greenhouse, 
greenhouse and plastic film planted directly by surface tillage 
layer. 
Garden Land  refers to land for intensive cultivation of 
perennial woody plants and herbs to collect fruits, leaves, roots, 
stems, branches and juice, with a coverage rate over 50% and 
plant number over 70% of rational plant number per mu. Land 
for nursery is included. 
Forest Land  refers to land for planting arbor, bamboo, 
bush shrub. It does not include the wetland where trees grow, 
the land for greening trees within the scope of towns and 
villages, the forest within the scope of railway and highway 
land acquisition, the land for revetment forest of rivers and 
ditches. 
Grassland  refers to land mainly for the growth of 
herbaceous forage crops. It includes sparse forest grassland 
with tree canopy density less than 0.1, shrub grassland with 
shrub coverage less than 40%, excluding wetlands with 
herbaceous plants. 
Wetland  refers to the land at the intersection of land and 
water, where the water level is close to or on the ground surface, 
or there is shallow ponding and is in a natural state. 
Land for Urban, Rural, Industrial and Mining 
Activities  refer to urban and rural residential areas, 
independent residential areas, and the land used by enterprises 
and institutions such as industrial and mining, national defense 
and scenic spots outside residential areas, including their 
internal traffic and greening land. 
Land Used for Transport  refers to the land for ground 
lines, stations, etc. used for transportation. It includes civil 
airport, automobile passenger and freight transport station, port, 
wharf, ground transportation pipeline, various roads and rail 
transit land. 
Land Used for Water and Water Conservancy 
Facilities  refers to land for water areas, ditches, hydraulic 
structures, etc. Flood detention area is not included. 
Volume of Runoff  refers to the total volume of water 
running through a certain cross section of a river during a 
certain period of time, reflecting the water resources condition 
in a country or a region. The formula for calculating volume of 
runoff is as follows: 
River Runoff =Precipitation- Evapotranspiration  
Drainage Area  Each river has its own main stream and 
branches to form the water system of the river. Each river has 
its own catchment’s area, which is also called as the drainage 
area of the river. 
Out-flowing Rivers  refer to rivers directly or indirectly 
flowing into the sea. The area providing water to the 
out-flowing rivers is called as out-flowing area.  
Inland Rivers  refer to rivers in inland dry areas that die 
away in desert on the way or infuse into inland lakes. The area 
providing water to the inland rivers is called as inland area.  
Mineral Resources  refer to useful minerals, with solid 
state, liquid state, gaseity, due to the geological process. 
Minerals are important natural resources, and important 
material base for economic and social development. At present, 
there are more than 170 types of minerals discovered in China. 
They can be categorized into four groups: energy minerals 
(including coal, petroleum, natural gas and terrestrial heat), 
metallic minerals (including iron, manganese, copper, lead and 
bauxite), nonmetallic minerals (including diamond, limestone 
and clay), and water/gas related minerals (including ground 
water, mineral water and carbon dioxide). Metallic minerals 
can be further classified as ferrous, non-ferrous, noble metal, 
rare metal, rare earth and dispersed metals. 
Reserves  are the economically recoverable part of the 
proved and/or controlled resources, are estimated after pre 
feasibility study, feasibility study or equivalent technical and 
economic evaluation, fully considering possible ore loss and 
dilution, and rational use of conversion factors, which meet the 
technical feasibility and economic rationality of mining. Oil 
and natural gas are the remaining proved technical recoverable 
reserves. 
Average Temperature  refers to the average air 
temperature on a regular basis, generally expressed in 
centigrade in China. Thermometers used for meteorological 
observation are placed in well-ventilated shelters about 1.5 
meters above the ground. Therefore, the commonly used 
temperature refers to the temperature in the shelter 1.5 meters 
above the ground. The calculation method is as follows: 
The summation of daily average temperature of one month 
divided by the actual days of that month represents the monthly 
average temperature. The summation of monthly average 
temperature of a year divided by 12 represents the annual 
average temperature. 
Average Relative Humidity  refers to the ratio of actual 
vapour pressure in the air to the saturation water vapour 
pressure at the current temperature. The calculation method is 
the same as that of average temperature.  
Precipitation  refers to the depth of water in liquid state 
or solid state (thawed), falling from atmosphere onto the 
 
 
270 
Resources and Environment 
ground without being evaporated, percolating or running off. It 
is usually expressed in millimeters. The calculation method is 
as follows: 
The monthly precipitation is obtained by the sum of daily 
precipitation of the month, and the annual precipitation is the 
sum of monthly precipitation of the 12 months of the year. 
Sunshine Hours  refer to the actual hours of sun 
irradiating the earth, usually expressed in hours. The 
calculation method is the same as that of the precipitation. 
Total Water Resources  refers to total volume of surface 
water and groundwater which is from the local precipitation  
and is measured as the summation of run-off for surface water 
and recharge of groundwater from local precipitation. 
Surface Water Resources  refers to total volume of 
yearly renewable water flow which exist in rivers, lakes, 
glaciers and other surface water, and are measured as the 
natural run-off of local rivers. 
Groundwater Resources  refers to total volume of 
yearly renewable water flow which exist in saturation aquifers 
of groundwater, and are measured as recharge of groundwater 
from local precipitation and surface water.  
Overlapped Measurement between Surface Water and 
Groundwater  refers to the part of mutual transfer between 
surface water and groundwater, i.e. which is the run-off of 
rivers includes some depletion into groundwater while 
groundwater includes recharge from surface water. 
Water Supply  refers to gross water supplied by various 
sources, including losses during distribution. 
Surface Water Supply  refers to withdrawals  through 
the surface water supply system, which can be divided into four 
categories: storage, flow, pumping and transfer project. 
Groundwater Supply  refers to withdrawals from 
supplying wells, which can be divided into three categories: 
shallow layer freshwater, deep confided freshwater and slightly 
brackish water.  
Other Water Supply Sources  include supplies by water 
reclamation plants, rainwater collection projects, seawater 
desalinization facilities and the consumption of mine water. 
Water Use  refers to gross water used by various 
off-stream water users, including losses during distribution, 
while excluding the direct use of seawater and in-stream water 
use such as hydroelectric generation and shipping.  
Water Use for Agriculture  includes uses of water for 
irrigation of cultivated land, forest land, garden land and grass 
land, replenishment of fishing farms and water used for 
livestock raising. 
Water Use for Industry  refers to water use by industrial 
and mining enterprises in the production process of 
manufacturing, processing, cooling, air conditioning, cleansing, 
washing, etc. Only including new withdrawals of water, 
excluding reuse of water within enterprise. 
Water Use for Households and Service  includes water 
use in both urban and rural areas. Urban water use is composed 
of households use and public use (including tertiary industry 
and construction). Rural water use refers to households use. 
Water Use for Artificial Eco-environment only includes 
the artificially replenishment of some rivers, lakes and wetlands, 
and use for urban environment, excluding the natural 
precipitation and runoff meet. 
Common Industrial Solid Wastes Generated refers to 
the amount of common industrial solid wastes the surveyed 
units actual generated over the year. The common industrial 
solid wastes refers to the industrial solid wastes that are 
generated during the industrial process and are not hazardous 
wastes.  
Common Industrial Solid Wastes Integrated Use  
refers to amount of solid wastes from which useable materials 
can be extracted or converted into usable resources, energy or 
other materials through reclamation, processing, recycling and 
exchange (including utilizing in the year the stocks of industrial 
solid wastes of the previous year) generated by surveyed units 
over the year of the survey, e.g. being used as agricultural 
fertilizers, building materials, material for paving road or as 
backfill material. The information should be measured as the 
unit of generating wastes. 
Common Industrial Solid Wastes Disposed  refers to 
the amount of industrial solid wastes disposed, which covers 
the amount of previous years, through incineration or other 
methods to change its physical, chemical and biological 
properties to reduce or eliminate the hazards or land filled in 
the sites following the requirements for environmental 
protection by surveyed units over the year of the survey.  
Stock of Common Industrial Solid Wastes  refers to the 
amount of solid wastes placed in special facilities or special 
sites by enterprises for the purposes of integrated use or 
disposal over the year of the survey. The sites or facilities 
should take measures against dispersion, loss, seepage, and air 
and water contamination. 
Common Industrial Solid Wastes Discharged  refers to 
the amount of industrial solid wastes dumped or discharged by 
producing enterprises to disposal facilities or to other sites over 
the year of the survey.  
Hazardous Wastes Generated  refers to the amount of 
actual hazardous wastes generated by surveyed units over the 
year of the survey, which is covered secondary generation 
during the process of disposal and reuse of hazardous wastes. 
Hazardous waste refers to those listed in the National 
Hazardous Wastes catalogue or identified as any one of the 
hazardous properties in light of the national hazardous wastes 
identification standards and methods. It should be reported 
following the National Catalogue of Hazardous Wastes (2016 
Version).  
Hazardous Wastes Reused and Disposed  refers to the 
amount of hazardous wastes that are used to extract materials 
for raw materials or fuel over the year of the survey, and the 
amount of hazardous wastes which are incineration or specially 
disposed using other methods to change its physical, chemical 
and biological properties and thus to reduce or eliminate the 
 
 
271 
资源和环境 
hazards, or placed ultimately in the sites following the 
requirements for environmental protection over the year of the 
survey. It includes the hazardous wastes generated by the 
enterprise itself and received from other enterprises. 
Year-end Stock of Hazardous Wastes  refers to the 
amount of hazardous wastes specially packaged and placed in 
special facilities or special sites by enterprises by the end of the 
year, which covered stock of surveyed units generated and 
received from other units. The special stock facilities should 
meet the requirements set in relevant environment protection 
laws and regulations such as “Pollution Control Standards for 
Hazardous Waste Stock” (GB18597-2001) and take measures 
against dispersion, loss, seepage, and air and water 
contamination. 
Domestic Garbage Collected and Transported  refers 
to volume of domestic garbage collected and transported to 
disposal factories or sites during the reference period. Domestic 
garbage are solid wastes generated from urban households or 
from service activities for urban households, and solid wastes 
regarded as municipal domestic garbage according to the laws 
and 
administrative 
regulations, 
including 
those 
from 
households, commercial activities, markets, cleaning of streets, 
public sites, offices, schools, factories, mining units and other 
sources. 
Rate of Domestic Garbage Harmless Treatment  refers 
to the ratio of the volume of domestic garbage harmlessly 
treated to the volume of domestic garbage produced during the 
reference period. In practical statistics, as the volume of 
domestic garbage produced is difficult to obtain, it can be 
replaced by the volume of collected and transported. It is 
calculated as: 
rate of domestic garbage harmless treatment 
volume of domestic garbage harmless treated
100%
volume of domestic garbage collected and transported


 
Forest Area  refers to the area of trees and bamboo grow 
with a canopy density above 0.2 degree, the area of shrubby 
tree according to regulations of the government, area of land 
under agroforestry and the area of trees planted by the side of 
villages, farm houses and along roads and rivers. 
Area of Planted Forests  refer to the area of stable 
growing forests, planted manually or by airplanes, with a 
survival rate of 80% or higher of the designed number of trees 
per hectare, or with a canopy density of 0.20 degree or above  
(after 3-5 years of manual planting or 5-7 years of airplane 
planting). 
Forest Coverage Rate  refers to the ratio of forest area 
to the total land area within the administrative region. The 
formula is as follows: 
forest area
forest coverage rate
100%
 
area of total land


 
Total  Stock Volume of Living Trees  refers to the total 
stock volume of trees accumulated on a certain area of land, 
including trees in forest, tress in sparse forest, scattered wood 
and trees planted by the side of villages, farm houses and along 
roads and rivers.  
Stock Volume of Forest  refers to total stock volume of 
timber of tree trunk in a given forest area.  
Area of Afforestation  refers to the total area of land 
suitable for afforestation, including barren hills, idle land, sand 
dunes, non-timber forest land, woodland and “grain for green” 
land, on which acres of forests, trees and shrubs are planted 
through manual planting. 
Manual Planting  refers to technical measures of sowing, 
planting seedlings and divided transplanting on land suitable 
for afforestation, including barren hills, idle land, sand dunes, 
non-timber forest land, woodland and “grain for green” land to 
increase vegetation coverage rate of forests. 
Airplane Planting  refers to technical measures of 
airplane planting with of appropriate artificial help taken under 
the influence of natural power to restore certain amount of 
seedlings on land suitable for afforestation, with an aim of 
increasing vegetation coverage rate of forests or improving 
forest quality. 
Closed Hillsides for Afforestation  is a technical 
measure by isolation with artificial means to form forest or 
shrub and grass or improve forest quality land, to the suitable 
area for forest, forest land without stumpage, sparse forest land, 
or low quality forest, shrub forest. 
Restoration of Degraded Forest  In order to improve 
the vitality and structure of forest, effectively control forest 
degradation, improve forest quality and restore forest function, 
management measures are taken to the forest of structural 
imbalance and stability reduction, function reduction or even 
loss and natural regeneration ability is weak, which include  
structural adjustment, species replacement, replanting sowing, 
grafting rejuvenation, etc. 
Artificial Regeneration  refers to forest reforming 
process in logging slash, slash burning, the glade through 
afforestation.  
Natural Reserves  refer to the area that protect typical 
natural ecosystems, natural concentrated distribution of rare 
and endangered wild animal and plant species, and natural 
relics of special significance. It has a large area to ensure the 
safety of the main protected objects, and to maintain and 
restore the quantity of rare and endangered wild animals and 
plants and their habitats.  
Landslides  refer to the geological phenomenon of 
unstable rocks or earth on slopes sliding down along certain 
soft surface as a result of gravity. 
Collapse  refers to the geological phenomenon of large 
mass of rocks or earth suddenly collapsing from the mountain 
or cliff as a result of gravity.  
Debris Flow  refers to the sudden rush of flood torrents 
containing large amount of mud and rocks in mountainous 
areas. 
Ground Collapse  refers to the geological phenomenon 
of surface rocks or earth subsiding into holes or pits as a result 
of natural or human factors.  
 
 
272 
Resources and Environment 
Number of Forest Fires  refers to the number of wild 
fires in forests, woods and woodland outside of cities. In light 
of the area plagued by fires and the number of casualties, forest 
fires can be categorized into general forest fires, relatively 
larger fires, serious forest fires and extraordinary serous forest 
fires: 1). General forest fires: the destructed forest area is less 
than 1 hectare, or the fire erupts in other woodland, or the 
number of deaths is no less than 1 but less than 3, or the 
number of seriously injured persons is no less than 1 but less 
than 10 persons. 2). Relatively larger forest fires: the destructed 
forest area is no less than 1 hectare but less than 100 hectares, 
or the number of deaths is no less than 3 but less than 10, or the 
number of seriously injured persons is no less than 10 but less 
than 50 persons. 3). Serious forest fires: the destructed forest 
area is no less than 100 hectares but less than 1000 hectares, or 
the number of deaths is no less than 10 but less than 30, or the 
number of seriously injured persons is no less than 50 but u less 
than 100 persons. 4). Extraordinary serious forest fires: the 
destructed forest area is no less than 1000 hectares, or the 
number of deaths is no less than 30, or the number of seriously 
injured persons is no less than 100 persons. 
Forest Harmful Organisms  refer to the diseases, pests, 
rats and harmful plants that plague forests, wood, desert and 
wetland vegetation.  
Abrupt 
Environmental 
Accidents 
 
refer 
to 
environmental emergencies that caused or likely to cause 
significant causalities, serious property damages and pose a 
major threat and damage to the economic, social or political 
stability of the country or a region, or have significant social 
impact that related to the public safety. 
 
