 
 
205 
人民生活 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
In the fourth quarter of 2012, the NBS launched its reform 
on the household survey programme, to develop an integrated 
survey, instead of two separate urban and rural household 
surveys. The reform aims at regulating the division of urban 
and rural areas, integrating the concepts, classifications and 
standards, implementing the integrated household survey, and 
collecting household data in the whole country thereafter. Data 
from 1978 to 2012 are estimated based on the historical data of 
Urban Household Survey and Rural Household Survey 
according to the comparable definition and coverage of main 
income and consumption indicators of Household Survey on 
Income and Expenditure and Living Conditions. 
I. Disposable Income of Residents 
Disposable Income of Residents refers to the income of 
residents for purpose of final expenditure and savings. It 
includes income both in cash and in kind. By sources of income, 
disposable income includes four categories: income from 
wages and salaries, net business income, net income from 
properties and net income from transfer. 
Income 
from 
Wages 
and 
Salaries 
 
refers 
to 
remuneration and benefits of all kinds of employed persons, 
including those employed by other units or individuals, 
freelance workers, part-time jobs, and sporadic workers. 
Net Business Income  refers to net income earned by 
households and their members engaged in production and 
business activities. It refers to the net income of operating 
revenue minus operating costs, depreciation of productive fixed 
assets, and production tax. The formula is: 
Net business income = operating revenue-operating costs 
-depreciation of productive fixed assets-production tax 
Net Income from Properties  refers to the net income 
received as returns by households or members through lending 
of their financial assets, non-financial assets such as housing, to 
other institutions, households or individuals, minus relevant 
costs. Net income from properties includes net income of 
interest, bonus income, net income of saving insurance, net 
income from transferring management right of contract land, 
income from lending of housing, income from lending other 
assets, net converted rents of self-owned housing. Net income 
from properties do not include premium of transferring 
ownership of assets. 
Net Income from Transfer  The formula is: 
Net income from transfer = income from transfer - 
expenditure from transfer 
Income from Transfer  refers to the regular transfer 
received from governments, institutions, social organizations to 
households and between households. It includes old-age and 
retirement pension, regular donation and compensation, 
reimbursement of medical fees, supporting income between 
households, income from non-resident members of households, 
etc. Income from transfer do not include gifts in kinds between 
households. 
Expenditure from Transfer  refers to regular or 
obligatory transfer paid to government, institutions, households 
or individuals. It includes tax payment, expenditure on all kinds 
of social security, supporting expenditure, regular donation, 
compensation payment and other regular transfer expenditure. 
According to Household Survey on Income and 
Expenditure and Living Conditions, main changes of 
population coverage of per capita disposable income of urban 
and rural residents includes: migrant workers residing in urban 
areas are included in the denominator when calculating per 
capita disposable income of urban residents, and not included 
in denominator when calculating per capita disposable income 
of rural residents; students studying in universities or colleges 
in other places who are supported by the households are 
regarded as permanent residents of the households. 
II. Consumption Expenditure of Residents 
Consumption Expenditure of Residents refers to all 
expenditure of residents for living expenditure to satisfy family 
daily living. It includes expenditure in cash and in kind. It 
includes eight categories: food, tobacco and liquor; clothing 
and footwear; housing; household equipments, furnishings and 
services; transport and communications; education, culture and 
recreation; health care and medical services, and miscellaneous 
goods and services. 
Food, Tobacco and Liquor  refers to expenditure for 
food, tobacco and liquor of all kinds. 
Clothing and Footwear  refers to expenditure related to 
clothing, including clothes, clothing materials, footwear, other 
clothing and accessories, processing services related to 
clothing. 
Housing  refers to expenditure related to housing, 
including rents, water, electricity, fuel, property management, 
as well as imputed rent on owner-occupied dwellings. 
Household Equipments, Furnishings and Services  
refers to expenditure of households and individuals on 
equipments, furnishings and articles for living purpose and on 
household services. It includes furniture and interior decoration, 
home appliances, home textiles, household miscellaneous daily 
articles, personal articles, and household services. 
Transport and Communications  refers to expenditure 
on transport and communication and related services, 
maintenance and repairs, and vehicle insurance. 
Education, Culture and Recreation  refers to expenditure 
on educational, cultural and recreational activities. 
Health Care and Medical Services  refers to expenditure 
on drugs, supplies and services of medical and health care. It 
includes medical appliances and drugs, and medical services. 
Miscellaneous 
Goods 
and 
Services 
 
refers 
to 
expenditure on all other articles and services that can not 
classified into the above categories. 
Service 
Consumption 
 
refers 
to 
consumption 
expenditure of households for various living services, including 
catering services, clothing and footwear processing services, 
housing services, household services, transportation and 
communication services, education, culture and entertainment 
services, medical services and other services. 
