 
 
105 
国民经济核算 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)  refers to the final 
products produced by all resident units in a country  during a 
certain period of time. Gross domestic product is expressed in 
three different perspectives, namely value, income, and 
products respectively. GDP in its value perspective refers to the 
balance of total value of all goods and services produced by all 
resident units during a certain period of time, minus the total 
value of input of goods and services of the nature of non-fixed 
assets; in other words, it is the sum of the value-added of all 
resident units. GDP from the perspective of income refers to 
the sum of all kinds of revenue, including compensation of 
employees, net taxes on production, depreciation of fixed assets, 
and operating surplus. GDP from the perspective of products 
refers to the value of all goods and services for final demand by 
all resident units plus the net exports of goods and services 
during a given period of time. In the practice of national 
accounting, gross domestic product is calculated by three 
approaches, namely production approach, income approach and 
expenditure approach, which reflect gross domestic product 
and its composition from different angles. 
For a region, it is called as gross regional product(GRP) or 
regional GDP. 
Gross National Income (GNI)  originally known as 
gross national product(GNP), refers to the final result of the 
primary distribution of the income created by all resident units 
of a country during a certain period of time. The value-added 
created by the resident units of a country engaged in production 
activities is distributed, during the primary distribution, mainly 
to the resident units of that country, while part of it is 
distributed to the non-resident units in the form of production 
tax (minus subsidies to production), compensation of 
employees and property income. In the meantime, a part of the 
value-added created abroad is distributed to the resident units 
of the country in the form of production tax (minus subsidies to 
production), compensation of employees and property income. 
The concept of gross national income is thus developed, which 
equals to gross domestic product plus the net income from 
primary distribution from abroad. Unlike GDP which is a 
concept of production, GNI is a concept of income. 
Three Strata of Industry  Classification of economic 
activities into three strata of industries is a common practice in 
the world, although the grouping varies to some extent from 
country to country. In China, according to Industrial 
Classification for National Economic Activities (GB/T 
4754—2017) and Rules on Division of Three Strata of 
Industries, economic activities are categorized into the 
following three strata of industries: 
Primary industry refers to agriculture, forestry, animal 
husbandry and fishery industries (not including services in support 
of agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and fishery industries). 
Secondary industry refers to mining and quarrying (not 
including support activities for mining), manufacturing (not 
including repair service of metal products, machinery and 
equipment), production and supply of electricity, heat, gas and 
water, and construction. 
Tertiary industry refers to all other economic activities not 
included in the primary or secondary industries. 
Compensation of Employees  refers to the total 
payment of various forms to employees for the productive 
activities they are engaged in. It includes the compensation 
earned by employees in cash or in kind. It mainly includes: 
wages, bonuses and allowances, subsidies, social insurance 
paid by company or employer for its staff, supplementary 
social insurance, housing fund, the pension for the employees 
of the administrative institution, other forms of welfare and 
remuneration provided by the employers for its employees. 
Net Taxes on Production  refers to taxes on production 
less subsidies on production. The taxes on production refers to 
the various taxes, extra charges and fees levied on the 
production units on their production, sale and business 
activities as well as on the use of some factors of production, 
such as fixed assets, land etc. in the production activities they 
are engaged in. Taxes on production are divided into product 
tax and other kinds of taxes on production, where product tax 
mainly includes: value-added tax, consumption tax, import duty, 
export duty; and other taxes on production mainly include: 
house property tax, tax on vehicles and boat operation, urban 
land use tax, etc. In contrast to taxes on production, subsidies 
on production refer to the payment by the government for free 
to the production units to influence production units’s activities 
such as production, sales and pricing. Subsidies on production 
include agricultural production subsidies, subsidies for policy 
losses, import subsidies, etc., and are treated as negative taxes 
on production. 
Depreciation of Fixed Assets  refers to the decline of 
the value of fixed assets due to natural deterioration, normal 
elimination or loss, and it reflects the value of the fixed assets 
transferred into the output through production. In principle, the 
depreciation of fixed assets should be calculated on the basis of 
the re-purchased value of the fixed assets. 
Operating Surplus  refers to the balance of the value 
added created by the resident units after deducting the 
compensation of employees, net taxes on production and the 
depreciation of fixed assets. 
GDP by Expenditure Approach  refers to the method 
of measuring the final results of production activities of a 
country (region) during a given period from the perspective of 
final uses. It includes final consumption expenditure, gross 
 
 
106 
National Accounts 
capital formation and net export of goods and services. The 
formula for computation is: 
GDP by expenditure approach = final consumption 
expenditure + gross capital formation + net export of goods and 
services 
Final Consumption Expenditure  refers to the total 
expenditure of resident units for purchases of goods and 
services from both the domestic economic territory and abroad 
to meet the needs of material, cultural and spiritual life. It does 
not include the expenditure of non-resident units on 
consumption in the economic territory of the country. The final 
consumption expenditure is broken down into household 
consumption 
expenditure 
and 
government 
consumption 
expenditure. 
Household Consumption Expenditure  refers to the 
total expenditure of resident households on the final 
consumption of goods and services. In addition to the 
consumption of goods and services bought by the households 
directly with money, the household consumption expenditure 
also includes expenditure on goods and services obtained by 
the households in other ways, i.e. the so-called imputed 
consumption expenditure, which mainly includes: (a) the goods 
and services provided to households by employers in the form 
of payment in kind and transfer in kind; (b) goods and services 
produced and consumed by the households themselves (such as 
self-producing-and-self-consuming agricultural products); (c) 
financial intermediate services provided by banking and 
insurance institutions. 
Government Consumption Expenditure  refers to the 
consumption expenditure spent for the provision of public 
services provided by the government to the whole country and 
the net expenditure on the goods and services provided by the 
government to households free of charge or at low prices. The 
former equals to the output value of the government services 
minus the value of operating income obtained by the 
government departments. The latter equals to the market value 
of the goods and services provided by the government free of 
charge or at low prices to the households minus the value 
received by the government from the households. 
Actual Final Consumption  refers to all goods and 
services acquired and used by resident units, for the satisfaction 
of their individual or collective needs or wants. It is broken 
down into household actual final consumption and government 
actual final consumption. From the numerical point of view, 
actual final consumption is equal to final consumption 
expenditure. 
Social Transfer in Kind  refers to the expenditure on 
goods and services provided by government, free of charge or 
at economically insignificant prices, to households for 
consumption purpose.  
Household Actual Final Consumption  refers to the 
value of goods and services for consumption, acquired by 
resident households, which is equal to the expenditure of 
households on goods and services for consumption plus the 
expenditure on goods and services for consumption provided 
by government to households in the form of social transfer in 
kind. 
Government Actual Final Consumption  refers to the 
value of the collective consumption services provided by 
government to the whole society, which is equal to the 
government 
final 
consumption 
expenditure 
minus 
the 
expenditure on goods and services for consumption provided 
by government to households in the form of social transfer in 
kind. 
Gross Capital Formation  refers to resident units’ 
acquisitions less disposals of fixed assets and inventory during 
a given period, including gross fixed capital formation and 
changes in inventories. 
Gross Fixed Capital Formation  refers to the value of 
acquisitions less disposals of fixed assets during a given period. 
Fixed assets are the assets produced through production 
activities with unit value above a specified amount and which 
could be used for over one year. Natural assets, consumer 
durables, small instruments are not included. Gross fixed 
capital formation includes the value of housing, other buildings 
and structure, equipment and machinery, breeding biological 
resources, intellectual property right product  minus the 
disposal of them. 
Changes in Inventories  refer to the market value of the 
change in the physical volume of inventory of resident units 
during a given period, i.e. the difference between the values at 
the beginning and at the end of the period minus the gains due 
to the change in prices. The changes in inventories can have a 
positive or a negative value. A positive value indicates an 
increase in inventory while a negative value indicates a 
decrease in inventory. The inventory includes raw materials, 
fuels and reserve materials purchased by the production units as 
well as the inventory of finished products, semi-finished 
products and work-in-progress. 
Net Export of Goods and Services  refers to the exports 
of goods and services subtracting the imports of goods and 
services. Exports include the value of various goods and 
services sold or gratuitously transferred by resident units to 
non-resident units. Imports include the value of various goods 
and services purchased or gratuitously acquired by resident 
units from non-resident units. The exports and imports of goods 
are calculated at FOB. 
Institutional Units  refer to economic entities that are 
capable, in its own rights, of owning assets, incurring liabilities 
and engaging independently in economic activities and in 
transactions with other entities.  
Institutional Sectors  refer to groups of institutional 
units that are homogenous in nature and grouped together. The 
following 4 institutional sectors are identified in the flow of 
funds 
accounts: 
non-financial 
corporations, 
financial 
institutions, government and households. Also treated as an 
institutional sector is the rest of the world, which is composed 
of non-resident units that have transactions with resident units. 
 
 
107 
国民经济核算 
Non-Financial 
Corporations 
and 
the 
Sector 
of 
Non-Financial Corporations  Non-financial corporations 
refer to resident corporations that are engaged in the production 
of goods and the provision of non-financial services in the 
market, mainly covering corporate enterprises of various types 
engaging in the above-mentioned activities. All non-financial 
corporations make up the sector of non-financial corporations. 
Financial Institutions and the Sector of Financial 
Institutions  Financial institutions refer to resident institutions 
that are engaged in the financial intermediary services or 
auxiliary financial activities that are closely related with 
financial intermediary services, mainly covering legal entities 
engaging in activities of monetary services, capital market 
services, insurance services, and other financial services. All 
financial institutions make up the sector of financial 
institutions. 
General Government and the Sector of General 
Governments  General government refer to legal entities and 
their auxiliary units that are established through the political 
process and are empowered with legislative, administrative or 
judicial rights over other institutional within specific regions. 
The main function of general government is to acquire funds 
through taxation or other means in order to provide goods and 
services to society and households; and to conduct 
redistribution of income and properties of society through 
transfer payment; and to engage in non-market production. 
General government cover mainly: party and government 
organizations at all levels, mass organizations, public 
institutions, grass roots self-governing organizations, etc. All 
general governments make up the sector of general 
governments. 
Households and the Sector of Households  Households 
refer to resident individuals or groups of resident individuals 
who share common living facilities, jointly use entire or part of 
their income and properties, and share their housing, food and 
other consumer goods and services. All households make up 
the sector of households. 
Non-resident Units and the Rest of the World  All 
units that are not resident units are non-resident units. All 
non-resident units that have transactions with resident units 
make up the rest of the world. 
Gross Primary Income  Primary income refers to the 
distribution of the value created from production activities 
among the owners of factors of production and the 
governments. The final result from production activities is the 
value-added. Factors of production mainly include labour force, 
capital, natural resources. Owners of labour force gain 
compensation of employees by providing labour. Owners of 
capitals gain income of various forms by providing capital: 
owners of loan capital receive income from interests; share 
holders receive dividends or participate in profit distribution; 
owners of natural resources receive rents for assign the use 
right of natural resources. Government levies production tax on 
production activities or factors of production for state 
administration needs and pay production subsidies for 
supporting related production activities. Results of primary 
distribution generate the gross primary income of each sector, 
and the sum of the gross primary income of all sectors make up 
the gross national income, or the gross national product. 
Current Transfers  Transfer refers to the transaction in 
the form of provision of goods, services or assets by an 
institutional unit to another institutional unit without receiving 
any direct corresponding return from the recipient. Current 
transfers are transfers that don’t involve obtaining or disposing 
property (except inventory and cash) of one side or both sides. 
They include regular tax such as income tax and property tax, 
social insurance contributions, social insurance benefits, social 
assistance and other current transfers. 
Gross Disposable Income  Gross income from primary 
distribution is re-distributed through current transfer, resulting 
in the gross disposable income of various institutional sectors. 
The sum of gross disposable income of all institutional sectors 
is the gross national disposable income. 
Adjusted Gross Disposable Income  The adjusted gross 
disposal income of each institutional sector, is equal to gross 
disposal income plus social transfer in kind receivable minus 
social transfer in kind payable of the institutional sector. It 
reflects the total income responding to the actual final 
consumption of each institutional sector. 
Gross Savings  refer to gross disposable income 
subtracting final consumption. The sum of gross savings of all 
sectors is the gross national savings. 
Capital Transfer  refers to the transfers that involve 
obtaining or disposing of property (except inventory and cash) 
of one side or both sides. Capital transfer includes: capital tax, 
investment grants and other capital transfers. 
Net Financial Investment  reflects the surplus or 
shortage of capitals of institutional sectors or of the economy in 
general in the process of non-financial investment. It is equal to 
gross savings plus net capital transfer minus  non-financial 
investment. From the point of view of financial transaction,  it 
is the difference between the increase of financial assets minus 
the increase of the financial liabilities. 
Currency  refers to currency that is in circulation in the 
market, including paper money and coin. 
Deposits  refer to deposits in depository financial 
institutions in various forms, which mainly include demand 
deposit, time deposit, fiscal deposit, foreign exchange deposit 
and other deposit, etc. 
Loans  refer to various types of loans granted by 
financial institutions, which mainly include short-term loan and 
bill financing, medium- and long-term loan, foreign exchange 
loan, entrusted loans and other loans. 
Bonds  refer to securities issued by institutional units to 
raise funds and promised to be repaid on agreed terms. They 
include government bonds, financial bonds, central bank bonds, 
and corporation bonds, etc. 
Stock  is certificate issued by limited liability company 
 
 
108 
National Accounts 
in accordance with the provisions of the company law, to raise 
capital, to justify the shareholder rights and interests and 
accordingly obtain the dividend and bonus. 
Insurance Technical Reserves  consists of net equity of 
social insurance fund and commercial insurance fund, 
prepayments of insurance premiums, and reserves for 
outstanding claims, and bond repurchase. 
Inter- financial Institutions Accounts  refer to flow of 
capital between financial institutions, consisting of nostro & 
vostro accounts, inter-bank lending. 
Required and Excessive Reserves  refer to financial 
institutions’ deposits and required reserves in the People’s 
Bank of China. 
Central Bank Loans  refer to lending to financial 
institutions by the People’s Bank of China  
International Reserve Assets refers to the foreign assets 
owned by the central bank, including foreign exchange, 
monetary gold, SDRs, and reserve position in the International 
Monetary Fund and other creditor's rights. 
Current Account  includes goods, services, primary 
income, and secondary income. 
Goods  refer to transactions of goods where economic 
ownership is transferred between residents and non-residents. 
Services  include processing services, maintenance and 
repair services, transportation, travel, construction, insurance 
and pension services, financial services, intellectual property 
rights royalties, telecommunications, computer and information 
services, other business services, personal, cultural and 
entertainment services and government services not mentioned 
elsewhere. 
Primary Income  refers to the returns received for the 
provision of services, financial assets, and leasing of natural 
resources, which includes three parts: employee compensation, 
investment income, and other primary income. 
Secondary Income  refers to the current transfers 
between resident units and non-resident units, including cash 
and transfers in kind. 
Capital Account  reflects the capital transfers between 
resident units and non-resident units, and the acquisition and 
disposal of non-productive non-financial assets between 
residents and non-residents. 
Financial Account  refers to the transaction of financial 
assets and liabilities between resident units and non-resident 
units, 
including 
non-reserve 
financial 
accounts 
and 
international reserves. 
Direct Investment  is an investment aimed at investors 
seeking effective voice for enterprises operating outside their 
own country. It includes two parts: direct investment assets and 
direct investment liabilities. Related investment instruments 
can be divided into equity and related enterprise debt. Equity 
includes equity and investment fund shares, as well as 
reinvestment returns. The liabilities of affiliated enterprises 
include negotiable and non-negotiable creditor's rights and 
liabilities among affiliated enterprises. 
Security Investment  includes securities investment 
assets and securities investment liabilities, and related 
investment instruments can be divided into equity and bonds. 
Equity rights include share rights and investment fund shares. 
Shares recorded under securities investment and investment 
fund shares should be negotiable (tradable). Equity rights are 
usually evidenced by shares, stocks, shares, depository receipts 
or similar documents. Investment fund share refers to the share 
of collective investment products such as mutual funds held by 
investors. A bond is a negotiable debt instrument, which is a 
certificate proving that its holder (creditor) has the right to 
recover principal or interest from its issuer (debtor) at some 
point in the future, including negotiable deposits, commercial 
instruments, corporate bonds, asset-backed securities, money 
market instruments, and a similar tool for usually trading on the 
financial market. 
Financial Derivatives  also known as financial 
derivatives and employee stock options, are used to record the 
transactions of financial derivatives and employee stock 
options between resident units and non-resident units. 
Other Investments  refer to financial transactions 
between residents and non-residents other than direct 
investment, securities investment, financial derivatives and 
reserve assets. They include other equity, currency and deposits, 
loans, insurance and pensions, trade credit and others. 
Net Errors and Omissions  Balance of payments 
statement adopts double-entry accounting method. Because of 
the differences in source data and recording time, it will cause 
imbalance between current account and capital and financial 
account, and result in statistical residual, which is called net 
errors and omissions. 
 
 
