 
 
135 
就业和工资 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Labour Force  refers to the population aged 16 and over 
who are capable of working, are participating in or willing to 
participate in economic activities, including employed persons 
and unemployed persons. 
Employed Persons  refer to persons, aged 16 and over, 
who performed some work for compensation or business gains 
for one hour or more during the reference period; or persons 
who do not work for the reasons of study or on holiday; or 
persons who are temporarily absent from a job for 
disorganization or suspension of work, recession, etc. 
Persons Employed in Various Units  refer to the total 
number of employees who work at his unit on the last day and 
obtain wages or other forms of payment at the end of the 
reporting period. This indicator is a kind of time point index 
and it equals to the sum of the number of employed staff and 
workers, labor dispatch personnel and other employed persons, 
excluding those who have terminated labor contracts with 
working unit on or before the last day of the reporting period. 
Employed persons do not include: 
1)persons who have left their working units while keeping 
their labour contract (employment relation) unchanged and 
receiving regular alimony; 
2)all kinds of enrolled students who do internship in 
various units; 
3)persons employed due to labor outsourcing, for example, 
persons employed in the organizational system of construction 
industry. 
Employed Staff and Workers  refer to persons who 
signed labor contracts with working units and working units 
would pay wages, social insurance and housing funds for them.  
Persons who have their work posts but are temporarily absent 
from work for reasons of study or on sick, injury or maternal 
leave and still receive wages from their working units are also 
included. Employed staff and workers also include: 
1)Persons who should have signed the labor contracts but 
not (like people with rural household registration); 
2)Employees on probation; 
3)Employees beyond the staffing quota, for example, 
temporary employees; 
4)Employees who are sent to other working units but still 
obtain wages from their original units (situations like 
on-the-job placement, expatriated assignment, etc. ) 
Total Wage Bill  It is revised according to the “Provision 
of Composition of Total Wages” (Order No.1 by National 
Bureau of Statistics on January, 1st, ,1990), total wage bill 
refers to the total remuneration payment to all employed 
persons in various units during the reporting period (by quarter 
or by year), including hourly-paid wages, piece-rate wages, 
bonuses, allowance and subsidies, overtime wages and wages 
paid under special circumstances. It equals to the sum of total 
wages of employed staff and workers, dispatch labors and other 
employed persons.  
Total wage bill is pre-tax wages, including the room 
charges, utility bills, housing funds and social insurance paid or 
withheld by employee’s units.  
Total wage bill, whether or not included in cost, whether 
or not paid in money or in kind, shall be included in the 
calculation of total wage.  
Average Wage  refers to the average per capita wage 
during a certain period of time for employed persons. It shows 
the general level of wage income during a certain period of 
time and it’s one major indicator to reflect the wage level.  It 
is calculated as follows: 
 time
reference
at 
  
employed
 
persons
 
of
number 
 
Average
 time
reference
at 
 
persons
employed
 
of
 
bill
 
 wage
Total
 
 
 Wage
Average

 
Average Nominal Wage Indices  refers to the ratio of 
average wage of employed persons at the reporting period to 
that at the base period, which reflects the change of money 
wage of employed persons at the different period. It is 
calculated as follows: 
Average wage of employed
Average money
persons at reference time
100%
Average wage of persons
wage indices
employeds at base period


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Average Real Wage Indices  average real wage of 
employed persons refers to the average wage of employed 
persons after removing the effects of the price changes and 
average real wage indices of employed persons refers to the 
change of real wage, which reflects the relative increasing or 
decreasing level of real wage of employed persons ,which is 
calculated as follows: 
Average wage indices of employed 
Average real 
persons at the reference time
100%
City consumer price 
wage indices
indices at reference time


 
Registered Unemployed Persons in Urban Areas  refer 
to the persons residing in urban areas at certain working ages 
(16 years old to the age of enjoying primary endowment 
insurance benefits according to the law), who are capable of 
working, unemployed and willing to work, and have been 
registered at the public employment and talent service agencies 
to apply for a job. 
Registered Unemployment Rate in Urban Areas  
refers to the ratio of the actual number of registered 
unemployed persons at the end of the period to the sum of the 
 
 
136 
Employment and Wages 
total number of employees at the end of the period and the 
actual number of registered unemployed persons at the end of 
the period. 
Surveyed Unemployment Rate in Urban Areas  refers 
to the ratio of the number of the unemployed persons in urban 
areas to the sum of the number of the employed persons and the 
unemployed persons in urban areas, calculated on the basis of 
the Labour Force Survey. 
 
