 
 
26 
General Survey 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Divisions of Administrative Areas  refer to the division 
of administrative areas by the State. The relative laws define 
the administrative division as follows: 1) the whole country is 
divided into provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities 
directly under the Central Government; 2) provinces and 
autonomous regions are further divided into autonomous 
prefectures, counties, autonomous counties and cities; 3) 
autonomous prefectures are further divided into counties, 
autonomous counties and cities; 4) counties and autonomous 
counties are further divided into townships, ethnic townships 
and towns; 5) municipalities directly under the Central 
Government and large cities are divided into districts and 
counties, 6) the State shall, when necessary, establish special 
administrative regions. 
Average Annual Growth Rate  shows the average 
growth rate of social and economic development during a 
longer period. It can not be directly calculated by chain based 
growth rate. The relation is: 
Average growth rate = average speed of development – 1 
Average speed of development is the time series average 
of speed which is obtained through chain-based calculation. 
Because the reference bases during the different periods are 
different, average speed of development can not be calculated 
by the general method. Level approach and accumulative 
approach for calculating average speed of development rate are 
applied. The “level approach”, or geometric average approach, 
is derived by the formula of geometric average of the 
chain-based 
speeds 
of 
development 
by 
continuous 
multiplication. The other is called the “accumulative approach” 
or the “equation” method, which is derived by the summation 
of the actual figure of each year in the interval divided by the 
figure in the base year. The level approach focuses on the level 
of the last year, while the accumulative approach emphasizes 
the aggregate development for the entire duration.  
The average annual growth rates listed in the Yearbook are 
calculated by the level approach except for the growth rate of 
investment in fixed assets. The base year is not listed in the 
duration for which average annual growth rates are computed. 
For instance, the average annual growth rate of the 43 years 
since 1949 is shown as the average annual growth rate of 
1950-1992 without showing the base year 1949.  
Industrial Classification of the National Economy  
The new Industrial Classification of the National Economy 
(GB/T 4754-2017) is introduced starting from the compilation 
of 2017 annual statistics and 2018 monthly or quarterly 
statistics. The revision, based on the 2011 classification, was 
organized by the National Bureau of Statistics taking into 
consideration of the characteristics of economic activities in 
China and the International Standards of the Industrial 
Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC/Rev.4) of the 
United Nations. The new Classification was promulgated by 
the former National Administration of Quality Supervision, 
Inspection 
and 
Quarantine 
and 
the 
Standardization 
Administration of the People's Republic of China on June 30, 
2017. The revised version of the Industrial Classification of the 
National Economy (GB/T 4754-2017) is composed of 20 
sections, 97 divisions, 473 groups and 1382 classes. 
Registration Status of Enterprises (units)  Enterprises 
are classified into 3 categories, namely enterprises with 
domestic investment, enterprises with investment from Hong 
Kong, Macao and Taiwan, and enterprises with foreign 
investment, according to the registration status of an enterprise 
in market supervision administration. Domestic-invested 
enterprises include state-owned enterprises, collective-owned 
enterprises, cooperative enterprises, joint ownership enterprises, 
limited liability corporations, share-holding corporations Ltd., 
private enterprises and other enterprises. Included in the 
enterprises with investment from Hong Kong, Macao and 
Taiwan 
and 
enterprises 
with 
foreign 
investment 
are 
joint-venture 
enterprises, 
cooperative 
enterprises, 
sole- 
proprietorship enterprises and share-holding corporations Ltd.  
State-owned 
Enterprises 
refer 
to 
non-corporation 
economic units where the entire assets are owned by the state 
and which have been registered in accordance with the 
Regulation of the People’s Republic of China on the 
Management of Registration of Corporate Enterprises. Not 
included from this category are state sole-proprietorship 
corporations in the limited liability corporations. 
Collective-owned Enterprises  refer to economic units 
where the assets are owned collectively and which have been 
registered in accordance with the Regulation of the People’s 
Republic of China on the Management of Registration of 
Corporate Enterprises. 
Cooperative Enterprises  refer to a form of collective 
economic units (enterprises) where capitals come mainly from 
employees as their shares, with certain proportion of capital 
from the outside, where production is organized on the basis of 
independent operation, independent accounting for profits and 
losses, joint work, democratic management, and a distribution 
system that integrates remuneration according to work with 
dividend according to capital share. 
Joint Ownership Enterprises  refer to economic units 
established by two or more corporate enterprises or corporate 
institutions of the same or different ownership, through joint 
investment on the basis of voluntary participation, equality, and 
mutual benefits. They include state joint ownership enterprises; 
collective joint ownership enterprises; joint state-collective 
enterprises; and other joint ownership enterprises. 
Limited Liability Corporations  refer to economic units 
established with investment from 2-50 investors and registered 
 
 
27 
综  合 
in accordance with the Regulation of the People’s Republic of 
China on the Management of Registration of Corporations, 
each investor bearing limited liability to the corporation 
depending on its share of investment, and the corporation 
bearing liability to its debt to the maximum of its total assets. 
Limited liability corporations include state sole-proprietorship 
corporations and other limited liability corporations. 
Share-holding Corporations Ltd.  refer to economic 
units registered in accordance with the Regulation of the 
People’s Republic of China on the Management of Registration 
of Corporations, with total registered capital divided into equal 
shares and additional capitals raised through issuing stocks. 
Each investor bears limited liability to the corporation 
depending on the holding of shares, and the corporation bears 
liability to its debt to the maximum of its total assets. 
Private Enterprises  refer to profit-making economic 
units invested and established by natural persons, or controlled 
by natural persons, using employed labour. Included in this 
category are private sole-proprietorship enterprise, private 
partnership enterprise, private limited liability companies, 
private limited-liability company by shares and individual 
sole-proprietorship enterprise registered in accordance with the 
Company Law, the Law on Partnership Business and the Law 
on Individual Proprietorship Enterprises. 
Other 
Domestic-Invested 
Enterprises 
 
refer 
to 
domestic-invested economic units other than those mentioned 
above. 
Joint Venture Enterprises with Hong Kong, Macao 
and Taiwan  are enterprises jointly established by investors 
from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan with enterprises in the 
mainland of China in accordance with the former Law of the 
People’s Republic of China on Sino-foreign Equity Joint 
Ventures and other relevant laws, where the establishment of 
the investment and the sharing of profits, taking risks and loss 
are stipulated in joint venture contracts. 
Cooperative Enterprises with Hong Kong, Macao and 
Taiwan  established by investors from Hong Kong, Macao 
and Taiwan with enterprises in the mainland of China in 
accordance with the former Law of the People’s Republic of 
China on Sino-foreign Contractual Joint Venture and other 
relevant laws, where the investment or provision of facilities 
and the sharing of profits and risks are stipulated under 
cooperative contracts. 
Sole-proprietorship Enterprises with Investment from 
Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan  refer to enterprises 
established in the mainland of China with exclusive investment 
from investors from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan in 
accordance with the former Law of the People’s Republic of 
China on Enterprises with Foreign Investment and other 
relevant laws. 
Share-holding Corporations Ltd. with Investment 
from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan refer to share-holding 
corporations Ltd. established with the approval from the 
Ministry of Commerce（the former Ministry of Foreign Trade 
and Economic Relations）
 in line with relevant state regulations, 
where the share of investment from Hong Kong, Macao or 
Taiwan businessmen exceeds 25% of the total registered capital 
of the corporation. In case the share of investment from Hong 
Kong, Macao or Taiwan is less than 25% of the total registered 
capital, the enterprise is to be classified as domestic-invested 
share-holding corporation Ltd.  
Other Enterprises with Funds From Hong Kong, 
Macao and Taiwan refer to partnership enterprises with 
investments from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan established 
within the territory of China in accordance with former 
Administrative Measures on the Establishment of Partnership 
Enterprises in China by Foreign Enterprises or Foreign 
Individuals and Regulations for the Administration of the 
Registration of Foreign-invested Partnership Enterprises. 
Joint Venture Enterprises with Foreign Investment   
refer to enterprises jointly established by foreign enterprises or 
foreigners with enterprises in the mainland of China in 
accordance with the former Law of the People’s Republic of 
China on Sino-foreign Equity Joint Ventures and other relevant 
laws, where the sharing of investment, profits and risks and 
loss are stipulated in contracts. 
Cooperative Enterprises with Foreign Investment  
refer to enterprises jointly established by foreign enterprises or 
foreigners with enterprises in the mainland of China in 
accordance with the former Law of the People’s Republic of 
China on Sino-foreign Contractual Joint Venture and other 
relevant laws, where the investment or provision of facilities 
and the sharing of profits and taking risks and loss are 
stipulated in cooperative contracts. 
Sole-proprietorship 
Enterprises 
with 
Foreign 
Investment   refer to enterprises established in the mainland 
of China with exclusive investment from foreign investors in 
accordance with the former Law of the People’s Republic of 
China on Enterprises with Foreign Investment and other 
relevant laws. 
Share-holding 
Corporations 
Ltd. 
with 
Foreign 
Investment refer to share-holding corporations Ltd. established 
with the approval from the Ministry of Commerce （the former 
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations） in line 
with relevant state regulations, where the share of investment 
from foreign investors exceeds 25% of the total registered 
capital of the corporation. In case the share of foreign 
investment is less than 25% of the total registered capital, the 
enterprise is to be classified as domestic-invested share-holding 
corporation Ltd.  
Other Enterprises with Foreign Funds refer to 
partnership enterprises established within the territory of China 
in accordance with former Administrative Measures on the 
Establishment of Partnership Enterprises in China by Foreign 
Enterprises or Foreign Individuals and Regulations for the 
Administration of the Registration of Foreign-invested 
Partnership Enterprises. 
 
