 
 
559 
运输、邮电和软件业 
 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Length of Railways in Operation refers to the total 
length of the trunk line for passenger and freight transportation 
in full operation or temporary operation. 
Length of Electrified Trunk Line refers to the length of 
the trunk line put into operation, capable for the running of 
electrified locomotives.  
Length of Highways refers to the actual length of 
highways at the end of reference period. It covers public roads 
running vehicles between cities, between urban and rural areas, 
and between townships (villages), as well as highways passing 
through streets at small cities and towns, length of bridges and 
tunnels, width of ferry piers. It does not include the length of 
streets in cities, dead end highways, the length of streets built 
for agricultural (forest) production and inside factories (mines). 
Mileage can only be included when the road is completed, 
checked and accepted or put into operation. If two or more 
highways use the same section, the length of the section is 
counted only once. 
Length of Navigable Inland Waterways  refers to the 
length of natural rivers, lakes, reservoirs and canals that are 
open to navigation for ships and rafts during a given period. It 
includes the channels with annual seasonal navigation for more 
than three months, excluding waterways for scattered bamboo 
and wooden rafts. If two provinces share one river as the border, 
the length of waterways will be equally divided for each 
province to avoid duplication. 
Length of Regular Civil Aviation Routes refers to the 
total length of all routes for scheduled flights, which is 
calculated using 10,000 kilometres as the measuring unit. There 
are usually two ways to calculate the route length: duplicated 
calculation 
and 
non-duplicated 
calculation. 
Duplicated 
calculation means that the same segment of different routes can 
be added with duplication, while the non-duplicated calculation 
allows the same segment of different routes to be counted only 
once.  
Length of Oil (Gas) Pipelines  refers to the actual 
transport distance of oil, gas and oil products, an indicator to 
reflect the length of pipeline routes and a reference to calculate 
the freight-kilometers. For those sections with double pipelines 
and alternate pipelines, the length will be calculated according 
to the length of single pipeline in principle. If the double 
pipelines perform the transportation at the same time and is 
unable to be counted separately, the length of pipelines will be 
the length of double pipelines divided by 2.  
Freight (Passenger) Traffic  refers to the weight of 
freight (number of passengers) transported with various means 
within a specific period of time. Freight transport is calculated 
in tons and passenger traffic is calculated in terms of number of 
persons. Freight transport is calculated in terms of the actual 
weight of the goods, irrespective of the type of freight and 
distance of transport. Passenger traffic is calculated by the 
principle that one person can be counted only once in one trip, 
irrespective of travelling distance and ticket price. The 
passengers who travel with a discounted ticket or a children 
ticket is also calculated as one person.  
Freight Ton-kilometres (Passenger-kilometres) refers to 
the sum of the product of the volume of transported cargo 
(passengers) multiplied by the transport distance. AS an 
indicator to reflect the achievement of the transportation 
industry, this is an important indicator to show the total results 
of the transport industry; to prepare and examine the transport 
plan; and to serve as the main basic data for calculating the 
efficiency, labour productivity and unit cost of transport. 
Normally, the shortest distance between the departure station 
and the destination station (i.e., the payable distance) is the 
basis in calculating the freight ton-kilometres. The formula is 
as follows: 
ation
 transport
of
 
distance
 
 
)traffic
(passenger
 
freight 
)
kilometres
-
(passenger
 
kilometres
-
n
Freight to


 
Volume of Freight Handled in Coastal Ports  refers to 
the volume of cargo passing in and out of the harbour area of 
the major coastal ports and having been loaded and unloaded. 
The volume of freight handled may be classified by direction of 
cargo flow as inbound freight and outbound freight, or by 
nature of trading as freight for domestic trade and freight for 
foreign trade. It can also be classified by type of freight based 
on the existing standard classification for transportation 
industry “Classification and Coding for Freight”. 
Possession of Civil Transport Vessels  refers to the 
total number of operating transport vessels at the end of 
reference period, owned by Chinese enterprises or privately, 
that are registered in the water transport management agencies 
and permitted to perform cargo or passenger transport activities 
(including vessels with foreign flags but owned by Chinese 
enterprises or citizens). Non-transport vessels and vessels used 
for agriculture and fishery are not included. 
Possession of Civil Motor Vehicles refer to the total 
numbers of vehicles at the end of the reference period that are 
registered and received vehicles license according to the 
Working 
Regulations 
for 
Motor 
Vehicle 
Registration 
formulated by the transport management offices. Motor 
vehicles are classified into different categories. By the structure 
of motor vehicles, they are divided into passenger vehicles, 
trucks and others; by ownership, into private vehicles and 
vehicles for the unit’s use; by usage, into business vehicles and 
non-business vehicles; and by size of vehicles, into large 
passenger vehicles, medium-sized passenger vehicles, small 
passenger vehicles and mini passenger vehicles, heavy trucks, 
 
 
560 
Transport, Postal and Telecommunication Services, and Software Industry 
light-heavy trucks, light trucks and mini-trucks. 
Business Volume of Post and Telecommunications 
refers to the total amount of postal and telecommunication 
services, expressed in value terms, provided by the post and 
telecommunications departments for the society. Business 
volume of post and telecommunications is the sum of each 
service in kind multiplying with its correspondent unit price 
(constant price). For business activities without constant price, 
the business revenue is added up directly. 
Mobile Phone Subscribers refer to persons who have 
gone through registration procedures in the operation outlets of 
enterprises engaged in telecommunications and are hence 
connected with the mobile phone communication network 
through the mobile phone switchboards and occupy mobile 
phone numbers. Included are various types of contracted 
subscribers, prepaid users for intelligent network and wireless 
network card users.  
Internet Users refer to the number of Chinese citizens 
aged 6 and over who use the Internet in the past six months.  
Fixed Telephone Subscribers refer to all subscribers who 
have gone through registration procedures in the operation 
outlets of enterprises engaged in telecommunications and are 
hence connected to the local telecommunications service 
provider through fixed line network.  
Household Telephone Subscribers refer to all kinds of 
subscribers with telephone sets paid privately or installed in the 
dwelling units of residents, and registered with payment as 
private subscribers or residence subscribers. 
Capacity of Fixed Long Distance Telephone Exchanges  
refers to the rated capacity of telephone exchanges to connect 
long distance telephone network by enterprises engaged in 
telecommunications. 
Capacity of Office Telephone Exchanges refers to the 
capacity (measured in gate) of telephone exchanges installed in 
the offices of telecommunication service providers for 
communication between fixed telephones. The capacity of 
access network equipment is not included.  
Capacity of Mobile Phone Exchanges refers to the 
capacity of the maximum services provided to subscribers at 
any one time as computed based on a certain model of calls 
distribution and transacting capacity of the mobile phone 
exchanges. It is calculated based on the actual capacity of 
equipment connected to network through cutover and put into 
operation officially at the end of the reference period. 
Broadband 
Connection 
Terminals 
refer 
to 
the 
connection terminals to internet users actually installed and put 
into operation, including connection terminals for XDSL, 
connection terminals for LAN, and other types of connection 
terminals. N-ISDN connection terminals are not included. 
Number of Computers refer to the number of computers 
used by enterprises (entities) at the end of reference period, 
including desktop computers, notebook computers and tablet 
computers.  
Internet refers to the worldwide public computer 
network which provides access to a range of communication 
services (including the World Wide Web) and transmits e-mail, 
news, entertainment, data files, etc. 
Websites refer to the computer system based on TCP / IP 
protocol, which is used by the public on the public Internet. It 
takes the domain name or "www. + domain name" as the 
website address and is composed of address, software, 
hardware and content. 
Sales Through E-commerce refer to the total value of 
goods and services (including value-added tax) sold by 
enterprises (entities) with the help of online orders during the 
reference period. With the help of online orders means 
receiving orders by internet or public networks automatically, 
while payments and distributions may not need the help of 
network. 
Purchases Through E-commerce refer to the total value 
of goods and services (including value-added tax) purchased by 
enterprises (entities) with the help of online orders during the 
reference period. With the help of online orders means placing 
orders by internet or public networks automatically, while 
payments and distributions may not need the help of network. 
 
 
