 
 
506 
Wholesale and Retail Trades 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Wholesale Trade refers to the activities of selling 
wholesale commodities for daily use and capital goods to other 
enterprises 
of 
wholesale 
and 
retail 
trades 
(including 
self-employed individuals) and other enterprises, institutions 
and government agencies and organizations, and the activities 
of engaging in import and export and acting as a trade agent. 
The wholesaler may have the ownership of the commodities for 
wholesale and trade in the name of its own (a company), and 
the wholesaler can act as commission agent or commodity 
broker without the ownership of commodities. Also included 
are the wholesale activities at the fixed stalls in wholesale 
market and the acquisition for sales purpose.  
Retail Trade refers to the activities of department stores, 
supermarkets, franchised stores, brand stores, retail stalls and 
on-the-spot-making-selling stores selling commodities to the 
final consumers (residents) by any means, including internet, 
post, telephone, sales machine. It also includes shops with sales 
and production located in the same places (such as bakeries). 
Retail trade excludes the activities of sales of capital goods 
such as grain, seed, feed, livestock, mineral products, raw 
material for production, industrial chemicals, chemical 
products for agricultural use, machine and equipment 
(excluding vehicles, computers and communication equipment). 
Most retailers have the ownership of commodities to sell, but 
some are acting as agents or brokers to make transactions for a 
commission. 
Purchase, Sales and Stock of Commodities by 
Wholesale and Retail Trades refer to the total volume of 
commodities purchased, total volume of sales and exports, and 
the stock of commodities by wholesale and retail enterprises 
(establishments) of different status of registration from 
domestic and overseas markets. This indicator reflects the 
relationship among purchase, sales and stock of commodities in 
the circulation of goods and reveals the existing problems. 
Total Purchases of Commodities refer to the total value 
of purchases of commodities by enterprises (establishments) 
from other establishments or individuals (including direct 
import from abroad) for the purpose of re-selling, either with or 
without further processing of the commodities purchased. The 
commodities include: (1) commodities purchased from 
agricultural and industrial producers, wholesalers, retailers, 
hotels and catering services, publishing houses and other 
enterprises, institutions and individual operators of service 
business; (2) commodities purchased from institutions and 
government departments; (3) smuggled or confiscated goods 
purchased from the customs authorities or market regulation 
agencies; (4) second-hand goods purchased from households. 
The commodities exclude (1) commodities purchased by 
enterprises (establishments) for use in their own business 
operation, commodities obtained without buying or selling 
procedures, such as materials, consumable goods of low value, 
office appliance, etc. (2) received goods without trading, such 
as goods handed over from others, borrowed goods, goods kept 
for others, donated goods from others, processed and retrieved 
goods, etc. (3) goods of direct settlement between buyer and 
seller with handling fees introduced by others, (4) goods 
returned or refused to pay by the buyer, (5) excessive goods, (6) 
futures trading commodities. 
Import  refers to the amount of goods imported directly 
from abroad or imported entrusted to foreign trade enterprises 
as agents, excluding imports purchased from relevant domestic 
units. Foreign trade enterprises only count imported goods 
independently, not imported goods entrusted by agents. 
Total Sales of Commodities refer to value of 
commodities sold by the establishments to other establishments 
and individuals (including goods sold for self consumption, 
including VAT). The commodities include: (1) commodities 
sold to individuals and social groups for their consumption; (2) 
commodities sold to establishments in all industries for their 
production and operation, including agriculture, industry, 
construction, and catering services, including commodities sold 
to wholesale and retail establishments for re-selling, with or 
without further processing; (3) commodities for direct export to 
abroad. Excluded are (1) extended commodities without trading, 
such as goods handed over to other enterprises and institutions 
because of the change of organizations, lent goods, return of 
goods kept for others, extended processing materials and 
samples donated to others, (2) goods sold by coupon rebates 
that are not included in business income, (3) goods of direct 
settlement between buyer and seller with handling fees 
introduced by others, (4) prepaid cards for goods without 
transfer of ownership, such as gas cards, (5) Service-oriented 
economic activities such as automobile maintenance and 
telephone card sales, (6) goods returned after purchase, (7) 
damaged and spoiled goods, (8) waste and used goods of 
self-use, (9) futures trading commodities, (10) water, electricity 
and gas supplied by water supply enterprises, electric power 
enterprises and natural gas supply enterprises. 
Export  refers to the amount of goods exported directly 
to foreign countries (or customers outside the borders), or 
exported entrusted to foreign trade enterprises as agents. 
Commodity export does not include goods sold to foreign trade 
enterprises for export or exported after processing, as well as 
goods sold in foreign currencies in the domestic market. 
Foreign trade enterprises only count the goods they export 
independently, excluding those exported by trusted agents. 
Total Stock of Commodities at End of Period For 
corporate units and self-employed individuals engaged in 
wholesale and retail trade, it refers to total value (including 
VAT) of commodities possessed at the end of the reference 
 
 
507 
批发和零售业 
period; and for wholesale and retail establishments, it refers to 
the value (including VAT) of all commodities actually in stock 
and owned by their corporate units at the end of reference 
period. The commodities in stock includes: (1) commodities 
located in storage, garages, counters, and shelves of operating 
places of wholesale and retail trades (such as sale stores, 
wholesale centres, procurement stations and operating offices); 
(2) commodities in the process of being selected, sorted, and 
packed; (3) commodities not arrived but recorded as 
purchaseed in the account, i.e. commodities not arrived but 
payment receipts for the commodities from the sellers or the 
banks arrived; (4) commodities deposited in other places rather 
than places mentioned above, for instance: commodities in the 
hold of purchasers temporarily due to the refusal of payment; 
(5) commodities entrusted to other units to sell but not sold yet; 
(6) commodities purchased for other units but not delivered yet. 
Commodities not included as stock are those not owned by the 
enterprises (units), commodities on commission for processing, 
imported commodities of agency of foreign trade enterprise but 
not yet delivered to ordering units and finally those put in stock 
on behalf of the state reserves units. 
Chain Head Stores (Headquarters)  refer to the core 
leading stores responsible for development, allocation, 
administration and utilization of resources (name of stores, 
brand of stores, operation model, service standard, management 
way, etc.) of chain stores. Chain stores refer to the stores 
engaged in providing homogeneous commodities or services, 
with the central leadership of the head stores (headquarters) and 
guided by common policies, conduct centralized purchase and 
distributed selling of commodities, in order to gain better 
efficiency through standardized operation. The chain stores 
include regular chain stores, franchise chain stores and 
voluntary chain stores.  
Regular Chain store refers to chain stores that are 
invested or controlled by the headquarters. They operate under 
direct and unified management from the headquarters.  
Franchise chain store refers to the chain stores 
(franchisees) which are franchised with operation resources 
such as trade marks, names, patent and operation know-how by 
the franchisors in form of contract, and pay the operation fees 
to the franchisors. 
Voluntary chain store refers to the stores operating 
jointly on the voluntary basis while maintaining their status of 
independent legal entities with full ownership of their assets. 
They sell goods of same brand from same channel of resources 
to the consumers. 
Large Commodity Markets with Transaction Value 
over 100 Million Yuan refers to the commodity markets with 
an annual transaction at and above 100 million. The commodity 
markets refer to markets approved and managed by related 
departments, where there are fixed sites, facilities, managers 
and administrative offices, where there are a certain number of 
traders to operate for at least three months or all the year, where 
the commodities, including articles for daily consumption and 
capital goods and services, are traded in a centralized, 
independent and open way. Such markets include markets for 
daily goods, markets of capital goods, etc. 
Total Retail Sales of Consumer Goods refer to the 
revenue 
received 
by 
enterprises 
(units, 
self-employed 
individuals) through direct sales of non-production and 
non-business physical commodities to individuals and social 
institutions, and revenue from providing catering services. 
Individuals include rural and urban households, population 
from abroad, social institutions include government agencies, 
social organizations, military units, schools, institutions, 
neighbourhood (village) committees, etc. 
Online Retail Sales  refer to the total retail sales of 
goods and services through public online trading platforms 
(including self-built websites and third-party platforms). Goods 
and services include physical goods and non-physical goods 
(such as virtual goods, service goods, etc.). 
 
 
