 
 
403 
农  业 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Gross Output Value of Agriculture, Forestry, Animal 
Husbandry and Fishery  refers to the total value of products 
(expressed in monetary terms) of agriculture, forestry, animal 
husbandry and fishery, and total value of services in support of 
agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and fishery activities. It 
reflects the total scale and results of agricultural production 
during a given period. Before 1993, the gross output value of 
agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and fishery included 
agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry, sideline and fishery. 
Since 1993, the subdivision of sideline occupations has been 
cancelled, and the hunting of wild animals has been classified 
into animal husbandry, and the gathering of wild plants and 
commodity industry run by rural household have been included 
in farming. A new industrial classification of economic 
activities was introduced in 2003. Under the new classification, 
the gross output value of agriculture included the value of 
farming, forestry, animal husbandry, and fishery, and included 
value of services to agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and 
fishery. In 2018, the output value of services to agriculture, 
forestry, animal husbandry and fishery was renamed the output 
value of professional and support activities in agriculture, 
forestry, animal husbandry and fishery, value of industrial 
output by rural households is not included in agriculture. 
According to the result of the first, second and third agriculture 
census, efforts were made to adjust the output value of 
agriculture, animal husbandry and fishery output. In line with 
the Classification of Products for Statistical Purposes 
implemented in 2010, relevant revisions were made on the 
output value of agriculture and forestry in 2009.  
Gross output value of agriculture is calculated by product 
method, and is obtained by multiplying the output of each 
product or by-product by its price, resulting in the output value 
of each single item. For a small number of products, annual 
output of which is not available or difficult to get due to the 
long production (growing) process involved, the output value is 
estimated through an indirect approach. The sum of output 
values of all products of agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry 
and fishery and professional and support activities in 
agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and fishery is then 
equal to the gross output value of agriculture. 
Grain Output  refers to the total output of grains 
produced within a calendar year. It includes summer crops, 
early rice and autumn crops by harvest seasons; and covers 
cereals, beans and tubers by type of crops. Output of cereals 
cover husked grain only. Output of beans refers to dry beans 
without pods. The output of tubers (sweet potatoes and potatoes, 
not including taros and cassava) are converted with the ratio of 
4:1, i.e. 4 kilograms of fresh tubers were equivalent to 1 
kilogram of grain before 1964. Since 1964 the ratio has been 
changed to 5:1. Tubers consumed as vegetables (such as 
potatoes) in cities and suburbs are calculated as fresh 
vegetables and their output is not included in the output of 
grain. Data on grain production before 1989 were obtained 
through the comprehensive statistical reporting system. Since 
1989, data from sample surveys are used. 
Cotton Output  refers to cotton production in the whole 
country including cotton planted in spring and in summer. 
Output is measured as the weight of ginned cotton. Ceiba is not 
included. 
Output of Oil-bearing Crops  refers to the total 
production of oil-bearing crops of various kinds, including 
peanuts (dry, in shell), rapeseeds, sesame, sunflower seeds, flax 
seeds, and other oil-bearing crops. Soybeans, oil-bearing 
woody plants, and wild oil-bearing crops are not included. 
Output of Aquatic Products  refers to final output 
actually yielded from fishing production (fishery and breeding), 
including all output of marine and freshwater fish, crustaceans 
(shrimps, crabs), shellfish, cephalopod, seaweed and other 
fishery products. Data on output of aquatic products are 
reported by fishery agencies level by level. Before 1995, 
among the shellfish, oyster was counted as fresh meat; and 5 
kilograms of ark shell, clams and frogs were equivalent to 1 
kilogram of fresh aquatic products; they have all been counted 
as fresh aquatic products since 1996. 
Output of Pork, Beef, Mutton and Poultry  refers to 
the meat of slaughtered hogs, cattle, sheep and goats with head, 
feet, and offal taken away. Before 1996, data were obtained 
through bottom-up comprehensive reporting system. The first 
agricultural census of China in 1996 revealed some discrepancy 
between the production of animal products from the annual 
reports and that from the census. Efforts were made to adjust 
the output value of animal husbandry to make the figures from 
the annual reports consistent with the census data. Since 1999, 
the NBS conducted sample surveys in selected regions for the 
major animal husbandry products, such as hogs, cattle, sheep 
and goats and fowls, and the data from sample surveys are used 
as finalized national data. Production of other regions which 
are not covered by the sample survey is still reported by 
statistical agencies level by level. A monitoring and survey 
program was set up in 2008 on main livestock, and data on the 
main livestock such as hog, cattle, sheep and poultry from the 
sample survey became the official data. 
Number of Livestock or Poultry in Stock at 
Beginning/End of Period  refers to the total number of large 
animals, pigs, sheep, fowls, etc. raised at the beginning/end of 
the reference period. Data reporting system and data adjustment 
are the same as that in the output of pork, beef, mutton and 
poultry. 
Sown Area of Crops  refers to area of all land 
(cultivated or non-cultivated area) sown or transplanted with 
 
 
404 
Agriculture 
crops that are harvested within the calendar year. All crops 
harvested within the year are counted as sown area, regardless 
of being sown in this year or the previous year. Crops sown this 
year but will be harvested in the coming year are excluded. 
Irrigated Area of Cultivated Land  refers to area of 
land that are effectively irrigated, i.e. relatively level land, 
where there are water sources or complete sets of irrigation 
facilities to lift and move adequate water for irrigation purpose 
under normal conditions. Under normal situations, irrigated 
area of cultivated land is the sum of watered fields and irrigated 
fields where irrigation systems or equipment have been 
installed for regular irrigation purpose. It is an important 
indicator 
to 
reflect 
the 
farmland 
water 
conservancy 
construction in China. 
Consumption of Chemical Fertilizers in Agriculture  
refers to the quantity of chemical fertilizers applied in 
agriculture in the year, including nitrogenous fertilizer, 
phosphate fertilizer, potash fertilizer, and compound fertilizer. 
The consumption of chemical fertilizers is calculated in terms 
of volume of effective components by means of converting the 
gross weight of the respective fertilizers into weight containing 
effective component (e.g. nitrogen content in nitrogenous 
fertilizer, phosphorous pentoxide contents in phosphate 
fertilizer, and potassium oxide contents in potash fertilizer). 
Compound fertilizer is converted in regard to its major 
components. The formula is: 
Volume of effective component= physical quantity× 
effective component of certain chemical fertilizer (%) 
Total Power of Agricultural Machinery  refers to the 
total rated capacity of all agricultural machinery. Agricultural 
machinery refers to the machines and equipment which are 
used for activities of farming, animal husbandry, fishery, 
primary processing of agricultural products, agricultural 
transport and infrastructure construction of farmland. Total 
power of agricultural machinery is classified into 4 groups 
according to the energy used: 
Diesel engine power refers to the total rated capacity of all 
diesel engines.  
Gasoline engine power refers to the total rated capacity of 
all gasoline engines. 
Electric motor power refers to the total rated capacity of 
all electric motors (include submersible pump motors). 
Other mechanical powers refer to the total mechanical 
capacity of machinery using other forms of energy apart from 
diesel, gasoline and electricity, such as hydro power, wind 
power, coal and solar energy.  
Data are mainly from Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Affairs. 
 
