 
 
326 
Investment in Fixed Assets 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Total Investment in Fixed Assets in the Whole Country   
refers to the volume of activities in construction and purchases 
of fixed assets of the whole country and related fees, expressed 
in monetary terms during the reference period. It is a 
comprehensive indicator which shows the size, structure and 
growth of the investment in fixed assets, providing a basis for 
observing the progress of construction projects and evaluating 
results of investment. Total investment in fixed assets in the 
whole country includes, by type of ownership, the investment 
by State-owned units, collective-owned units, joint ownership 
units, share-holding units, private units, individuals as well as 
investments by entrepreneurs from Hong Kong, Macao and 
Taiwan, foreign investors and others.  
Investment 
in 
Fixed 
Assets 
(Excluding 
Rural 
Households) refers to the investment in construction projects 
with a total planned investment of 5 million yuan and over by 
enterprises of various ownerships, institutions, administrative 
units and urban self-employed individuals, and the investment 
in real estate development in both urban and rural areas. Since 
2011, it covers the urban investment in fixed assets under the 
previous statistical coverage plus project investments by rural 
enterprises and institutions.  
Non-governmental Investment in Fixed Assets  refers 
to the investment in the construction or purchase of fixed assets 
in the territory of the People's Republic of China by 
domestic-funded enterprises and institutions with collective, 
private and personal nature and by enterprises and institutions 
controlled by them (including absolute and relative holding). 
Infrastructure Investment  refers to projects and 
facilities that provide basic and popular services for social 
production and life. It is the basic condition for the survival and 
development of society. It includes: railway transport, road 
transport, water transport, air transport, pipeline transport, 
multimodal transport and transport agent Intermodality and 
Forwarding 
Agency, 
loading 
and 
unloading, 
posts, 
telecommunications, 
radio 
and 
television 
and 
satellite 
transmission services, Internet and related services, water 
management industry, ecological protection and environmental 
governance, public facilities management. 
Actual Funds for Investment  refer to all kinds of 
monetary funds used for fixed assets investment. It includes 
state budget funds, domestic loans, foreign capital utilization, 
self-raising funds and other funds. 
Fund from the State Budget  State budget consists of 
general budget, government fund budget, operation budget of 
state-owned assets and social security fund budget. Funds for 
investment in fixed assets from various budgets are reported as 
fund from the state budget, of which, the general budget utilized 
on fixed assets investment includes investment on infrastructure 
construction, vehicle purchase tax, post-disaster restoration and 
reconstruction funds and other financial investment. Government 
bonds at all levels should also be included. 
Domestic Loans  refer to loans of various forms 
borrowed by investing units from banks and non-bank financial 
institutions during the reference period for the purpose of 
investment in fixed assets, including loans issued by banks 
from their self-owned funds and deposit, loans appropriated by 
higher responsible authorities, special loans by government 
(including loan for substituting petroleum with coal, special 
loans for reform-through-labour coal mines), loans arranged by 
local government from special funds, domestic reserve loan, 
and revolving loan, etc. 
Foreign Investment  refers to overseas (including 
foreign countries, Hongkong, Macao and Taiwan) funds 
received during the reference period (covering equipment, 
materials and technology), including foreign borrowings (loans 
from 
foreign 
governments 
and 
international 
financial 
institutions, export credit, commercial loans from foreign banks, 
issue of bonds and stocks overseas), foreign direct investment 
and other foreign investments (including funds from foreign 
direct investment income that are reinvested in fixed assets 
domestically). Excluded from this category is capital in foreign 
exchanges owned by China (foreign exchanges owned by the 
central and local governments, foreign exchanges retained by 
enterprises, foreign exchanges by enterprises through the 
regulating mechanism, loans in foreign exchanges issued by the 
Bank of China with its own fund, etc.). In calculating the 
utilization of foreign capital, foreign currencies are converted 
into Chinese Renminbi applying the exchange rate (central 
parity rate) at the end of the reference period. 
Self-raised Funds  refer to funds for investment in fixed 
assets received during the reference period by investing units, 
including investment in fixed assets using own funds of various 
enterprises and institutions or funds raised from other units 
other than financial funds, funds borrowed from financial 
institutions and overseas funds. 
Other Funds  refer to funds for investment in fixed 
assets received from sources other than those listed above, 
including funds raised from individuals and through donations, 
and funds transferred from other units. 
Investment in Fixed Assets by Sector  refers to the 
classification of investment by the nature of social economic 
activities the investing units are engaged in. The classification of 
construction projects by sector is determined by the major products 
or the purpose of the projects when they are put into production or 
use, and by the nature of their social economic activities, instead of 
being determined by industrial classification of the project 
enterprises. The project will be classified according to major 
product if there are several kinds of products yielded. In general, 
one project can only be classified into one sector. 
 
 
327 
固定资产投资 
Investment in Fixed Assets by Jurisdiction of 
Management  refers to the classification of investment by the 
competent authorities under which investment is made by 
construction units, enterprises, institutions or administrative units. 
(1) Central investment refers to the investment in projects 
or by enterprises, institutions or administrative units which are 
under the direct leadership and management of the State 
Council and of the national commissions, ministries, agencies 
and State-owned large corporations. Various ministries and 
departments of the State Council prepare and implement plans 
through unified organization or lower-level commissions, 
which include departments direct under central government (i.e. 
survey offices at all level of the National Bureau of Statistics) 
and enterprises and institutions directly under central 
government (like the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, 
China Telecom and China National Petroleum Corporation). 
(2) Local investment refers to the investment in projects or 
by enterprises, institutions or administrative units which are 
under the direct leadership and management of competent 
departments and governments at the level of province 
(autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the 
Central Government), prefecture （prefectures, cities and 
leagues） and county (districts, cities and banners). Also 
included are projects by foreign-invested enterprises and 
enterprises without competent managing authorities. 
Investment in Fixed Assets by Type of Construction  
Construction projects in general can be classified, by the type 
of construction, into new construction, expansion, reconstruction 
and technical transformation, purely construction of living 
facilities, moving, restoration and purely purchasing. However, 
investment by type of construction is not applied to investment 
by real-estate development units and investment by rural 
households.  
(1) New construction in general refers to construction 
projects, which start from scratch. The existing projects 
invested by enterprises, institutions and administrative agencies 
cannot be classified as new construction. In case the size of the 
existing unit is quite small, and the value of newly added fixed 
assets is more than three times of the original value, the 
expansion will be considered as new construction. 
(2) Expansion refers to projects of construction of new 
production 
workshop, 
branch 
factory 
or 
independent 
production line within a factory or in other locations, for the 
purpose of increasing the production capacity (or improving 
efficiency) or adding new production capacity. Newly 
constructed accommodation for the operation of institutions 
and administrative organizations (such as newly constructed 
buildings for teaching in schools, buildings for clinics or wards 
in hospitals, etc.) are also classified as expansion. 
Also included in expansion are investments by existing 
enterprises or institutions in building major production line(s) 
or branch factory (ies) along with some work on innovation, for 
the purpose of expanding the production capacity of original 
products or producing new products. 
(3) Reconstruction and technical transformation refers to 
construction projects by existing enterprises or institutions in 
innovation or technical transformation of the old facilities 
(including auxiliary production equipment and welfare 
facilities). Also considered as reconstruction is the construction 
of new workshops by the existing enterprises or institutions to 
change the variety of products to meet the market demand 
(such as the production of civil products by defence industries), 
or to bring the designed production capacity into full play 
through a more balanced production process on production 
lines. Technical transformation refers to replacement of old 
technology or equipment by new technology or equipment, in 
order to expand the reproduction through improvement of 
technology contents in production, to improve product quality, 
to promote new products, to save energy, to reduce consumption, 
to expand the production scale and to improve overall 
social-economic efficiency. Contents of technical transformation 
include: updating of machinery, equipment and tools; 
reforming production process by using energy or materials 
saving technology; construction of factory workshops and 
transformation of public facilities; treatment transformation of 
“three wastes” (waste gas, waste water and industrial residue) 
aiming at environmental protection; improvement of working 
conditions and environment, etc. 
Investment in Fixed Assets by Structure   
(1) Construction refers to the construction of houses and 
buildings, also known as work volume of construction. This 
part of investment can only be achieved through construction 
activities, it is the major component of the total investment in 
fixed assets. 
(2) Installation refers to the installation of various kinds of 
equipment and instruments, also known as work volume of 
installation. 
The value of equipment installed itself is not included in 
the value of installation projects. 
(3) Purchase of equipment and instruments refers to the 
total value of equipment, tools, and instruments purchased or 
self-produced which come up to the cut-off point for fixed 
assets during the reference period. Equipment, tools and 
instruments purchased or self-produced for new workshops by 
newly established or expanded units are categorized as 
“purchase of equipment and instruments” no matter whether 
they come up to the cut-off point for fixed assets. 
(4) Other expenses refer to expenses arising during the 
construction or purchase of fixed assets other than those 
expenses on construction, installation and purchase of 
equipment and instruments. Other financial expenses arising in 
operation are not included.
 
