 
 
624 
Real Estate 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Area of Land Pending for Development  refers to the 
area of land with its use rights already approved by authorities 
and obtained by real estate development enterprises but the 
land development not yet started. 
Area of Land Purchased in the Year  refers to the area 
of land with its use rights already obtained in the year by real 
estate development enterprises. 
Transaction Value of Land in the Year  refers to the 
final value of transactions made by real estate development 
enterprises to obtain the land use rights in the year. At the 
primary land market, it refers to the value of final assignment, 
or the value reached and transferred as a result of bidding, 
auction or listing procedures. In the secondary land market, it 
refers to the final value on contracts with land transfer, lease 
and mortgage. The transaction value of land and the land space 
purchased have the same scope. 
Value of Land Purchased  refers to the payment made 
by real estate development enterprises for land use rights. The 
actual payment of land purchased is recorded. If the payment is 
by installments, it should be recorded when occurring. If the 
project is developed by stages, the value of land purchased only 
related to the current project. The value of land purchased in 
the early stage should be recorded after the project is included 
in the statistics. 
Total Investment Planned  refers to the total investment 
required for the completion of the activities according to the 
planned design or budget for the project under construction by 
real estate development enterprises. 
Accumulative Investment Completed from Starting of 
Construction  refers to all the investment accomplished by 
real estate development enterprises in the construction of 
buildings or the development of land from the beginning of 
project to the end of the year. 
Investment in Real Estate Development  refers to the 
investment made by real estate development enterprises in the 
construction of buildings, development of land, nonprofit 
buildings and value of land purchased. 
Total Actual Funds in Place in the Year  refers to the 
total amount available for real estate development regardless of 
kinds of currencies. It includes domestic loans, foreign 
investment, self-raised funds, deposit and advance payment, 
personal mortgage loan and others. 
Floor Space of Buildings under Construction  refers to 
the total space area of the buildings under construction in the 
year by real estate development enterprises. It includes 
buildings started in the year, continued from the previous year, 
suspended in earlier years but restarted in the year, completed 
in the year, and buildings under construction but suspended in 
the year. The floor space of a multi-storied building should be 
the sum of floor space of all the stories. 
Floor Space of Buildings Started in the Year  refers to 
the total floor space area of the buildings started in the year by 
real estate development enterprises. It excludes the buildings 
started in previous years and continued in the year, and the 
buildings suspended in previous years but restarted in the year. 
The start of a construction is defined by the date of ground 
breaking or pile driving. The floor space of the buildings 
started in the year includes that of the entire building. 
Floor Space of Buildings Completed  refers to the total 
floor space area of each building completed in the year by real 
estate development enterprises, which meet the requirements as 
designed, up to the standard for being resided in and put into 
use, has been checked and accepted by departments concerned 
as qualified or up to the standard of buildings completed and 
can be handed over for putting into use. 
Floor Space of Commercial Buildings Sold refers to 
total contracted area of commercial buildings (i.e. area of floor 
space as designated in the formal contracts signed by both sides) 
sold by real estate development enterprises in the year.  
Sales of Commercial Buildings  refers to the total 
contracted value (i.e. value of sales/purchase for selling/ 
purchase of commercial buildings as designated in the contract 
signed by both sides) received from the sales of the buildings 
by real estate development enterprises in the year. This 
indicator has the same statistical coverage as the area of 
commercial buildings sold. 
 
