 
 
580 
Hotels, Catering Services and Tourism 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Hotel Services refer to short-term accommodation 
services provided to visitors. Some units may provide only 
accommodation while others provide a combination of 
accommodation, meals, business services and recreational 
facilities. It excludes activities related to the provision of 
long-term primary residences, typically leased on a monthly or 
annual basis.  
Catering Services  refer to the activities of providing 
foods, serving locations and facilities to customers through 
instant processing, commercial sales and service-type labor. 
Business Revenue  refers to total revenue (including 
VAT) of hotels and catering services received from providing 
services or selling commodities through business activities. 
Revenue comes mainly from providing hotels, catering services, 
selling of commodities and other services, such as commodity 
services. It does not include revenue from providing meals or 
selling of commodities by establishments affiliated to other 
multi-industrial corporate enterprises. Income from hotel rooms 
refers to income (including VAT) of hotels and catering 
services by providing lodging services through business 
activities. Income from meals refers to income (including VAT) 
from providing catering services, including selling of cooked or 
prepared foods, such as staple food, cooked dishes, or cold 
dishes. It does not include income from meals provided by 
establishments affiliated to other multi-industrial corporate 
enterprises. 
Overseas Visitor Arrivals  refer to the number of 
tourists of foreigners, Chinese compatriots from Hong Kong, 
Macao and Taiwan who come to China (mainland) within the 
reference period for sight-seeing, vacation, visiting relatives, 
medical treatment, shopping, attending conference, or to 
engage in economic, cultural, sports and religious activities 
(namely the number of overseas visitor arrivals). In compiling 
statistics, each arrival is counted as one person-time. Overseas 
visitor arrivals includes inbound overnight tourists and one-day 
tourists. 
Number of Chinese Residents Going Abroad (Chinese 
Outbound Visitors) refers to the number of Chinese (mainland) 
residents going to other countries, Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region, Macao Special Administrative Region 
and Taiwan Province on official or private purposes, for 
sight-seeing, vacation, visiting relatives, medical treatment, 
shopping, attending conference, or to engage in economic, 
cultural, sports and religious activities (namely the Chinese 
outbound visitors). In compiling statistics, each outbound travel 
is counted as one person-time. 
Number of Domestic Tourists refers to the number of 
Chinese (mainland) residents who travel within China 
(mainland) for sight-seeing, vacation, visiting relatives, medical 
treatment, shopping, attending conference, or to engage in 
economic, cultural, sports and religious activities. In compiling 
statistics, each travel is counted as one person-time. 
Foreign 
Exchange 
Earnings 
from 
International 
Tourism  refer to the total expenditure of overseas visitors 
during their stay in the mainland of China on transportation, 
sighting, accommodation, food, shopping and entertainment. 
Income from Domestic Tourism  refer to expenditure 
of domestic tourists on transportation, sighting, accommodation, 
food, shopping and entertainment while they travel. 
Star-rated Hotels  refer to hotels rated with stars as 
evaluated (accepted) by the relevant tourism authorities 
according to GB/T14308-2010 standard with reference to their 
infrastructure, facilities and service levels. 
 
 
