 
 
447 
工  业 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Industry  refers to the material production sector which 
is engaged in the extraction of natural resources and processing 
and reprocessing of minerals and agricultural products, 
including (1) extraction of natural resources, such as mining, 
salt production (but not including hunting and fishing); (2) 
processing and reprocessing of farm and sideline produces, 
such as grain and oil processing, food processing, silk reeling, 
spinning and weaving and leather making; (3) processing and 
reprocessing of mineral products, such as steel making, iron 
smelting, chemicals manufacturing, petroleum processing, 
machine building, timber processing, and production and 
supply of electricity, gas and water; (4) repairing and 
renovating of industrial products such as the machinery. 
In industrial surveys, the units of enquiry are industrial 
corporate units. 
Industrial corporate units refer to corporate units engaging 
in industrial production and operation activities, which meet the 
following requirements: (1) They are established legally, 
having their own names, organizations, location, and are able to 
take civil liability independently; (2) They possess (or are 
authorized to use) assets independently, assume liabilities and 
are entitled to sign contracts with other units; (3) They have 
accounts including the balance sheets or can compile the 
accounts according to the need. 
State-holding Enterprises cover the original state-owned 
enterprises and state-holding enterprises. They are classified 
according to the actual investment made by the contributors of 
state-owned part in the paid-in capital of the enterprises, or the 
degree of control or dominance of the contributor on the assets 
of the enterprises. The following cases are regarded as 
state-holding: (1) Absolute state-holding in which the 
contributors of state-owned parts possess more than 50% of all 
the paid-in capital (stocks) of the enterprises; (2) Relative 
state-holding in which the contributors of state-owned parts 
possess no more than 50% of the paid-in capital (stocks) of the 
enterprises, but more than that of any other contributors; or 
agreed state-holding in which the contributors of state-owned 
parts possess no more than other contributors but have actual 
control over the enterprises according to agreements; (3) In 
case both contributors possess 50% and it is not clear which 
one is in absolute holding position, the enterprise is regarded as 
state-holding enterprise if one of the contributor has 
state-owned elements.  
For explanation of types of registration covered in this 
chapter, please refer to Chapter 1 on General Survey. 
Total Assets  refer to all resources that are owned or 
controlled 
by 
enterprises 
through 
previous 
trades 
or 
transactions, with expectation of making economic profits to 
enterprises. Included are all assets owned by enterprises such as 
land, office buildings, factories, machines, vehicles, inventories 
and other physical assets as well as cash, deposits, accounts 
receivable, prepayments and other financial assets. Classified 
by the degree of liquidity, total assets include current assets and 
non-current assets. Current assets can be classified into 
monetary capital, trading financial assets, notes receivable, 
accounts receivable, advanced payments, other receivables and 
inventories. Non-current assets can be divided into long-term 
equity investment, fixed assets, intangible assets and other 
non-current assets. Data on this indicator can be obtained from 
the year-end figures of total assets in the Balance Sheet of 
accounting records. 
Current Assets  refer to the assets that meet one of the 
following requirements: (1) expected to be cashed, sold or used 
in a normal operation cycle, mainly including inventory and 
accounts receivable; (2) owned for transaction purpose mainly; 
(3) expected to be cashed within one year (including one year) 
from the day of the Balance Sheet; (4) unlimited cash or cash 
equivalents that can be exchanged with other assets or capable 
of settling debts during one year since the day of the Balance 
Sheet. Included are monetary capital, notes receivable, accounts 
receivable and inventories. Data on this indicator can be 
obtained from the year-end figures of total current assets in the 
Balance Sheet of accounting records. 
Total Liabilities  refer to payable liabilities of 
enterprises that are accumulated from earlier transactions with 
expectation of leaking out of economic profits. Included are 
debts that enterprises are responsible for repaying such as bank 
loans, borrowings, accounts payable, wages payable, employee 
benefits payable, taxes payable, etc. In terms of payment, it can 
be divided into liquid liabilities and long-term liabilities. Data 
on this indicator can be obtained from the year-end figures of 
total liabilities in the Balance Sheet of accounting records. 
Accounts Receivable  refers to creditor's rights through 
business activities such as selling goods and providing labor. It 
comes from the ending balance of accounts receivable in 
balance sheet. 
Inventories  refers to finished goods or commodities 
held in preparation for sale in enterprises’ daily activities, 
goods in the production process, material or the physical 
materials consumed in the production process or in the process 
of providing labor, usually include raw materials, goods in the 
production process, semi-finished products, finished products, 
goods and materials in flow. It comes from the ending balance 
of inventory in balance sheet. 
Finished Goods  refers to the products that the 
enterprises have completed all of the production process and 
accepted and put in storage, and can be sent to the ordering 
units in accordance with the contract stipulations, or can be on 
sale. If "finished goods" or "goods in stock" are listed in the 
Balance Sheet, it is the ending balance; or, it is calculated 
 
 
448 
Industry 
according to the debit balance of the accounting "finished 
goods" or "goods in stock" account, minus the inventory falling 
price reserves for "finished products" or "goods in stock". 
Business Revenue refers to the inflow of economic 
benefits through production and operation activities of 
enterprises, such as selling commodities, providing labor 
services and transferring the right to use of assets.  Business 
revenue includes "revenue from principal business" and " 
revenue from other business". It comes from current year’s 
cumulative report of "business revenue" items from the 
"income statement". 
Business Cost  refers to the actual costs incurred by the 
enterprises in such production and operation activities as 
selling commodities, providing labor services and transferring 
the right to use of assets. It includes various expenditures 
incurred by enterprises (units) in their daily activities of selling 
goods and providing labour services during the reporting period. 
It includes "cost of principal business" and "cost of other 
business". It comes from current year’s cumulative report of 
"operating cost" items from the "income statement". 
Selling Expenses  refer to the cost during the sale of 
goods and materials, providing labour services, including 
insurance, packing, exhibition fees and advertising fees, 
merchandise maintenance costs, expected product quality 
guarantee loss, transportation fees, handling fees, and operating 
expenses for the sales of the company's products, such as 
employee compensation, business expenses, depreciation costs 
for dedicated sales offices (including sales outlets, after-sales 
service outlets, etc.). 
Management Expenses  refer to the expenses for the 
organization and 
management 
of enterprise 
operation, 
including the start-up costs during the construction of 
enterprises, funds occurred during enterprises operation by 
board of directors and executive management in the enterprise 
management, and other costs to be paid by enterprises. It comes 
from current year’s cumulative amount of management cost in 
income statement. 
Financial Expenses  refer to cost of fund-raising for 
enterprises to raise funds for production and operation, 
including interest payments (a reduction in interest income), 
exchange loss (less exchange gains) and related fees during the 
period of production. It comes from current year’s cumulative 
amount of financial expenses in income statement. 
Total Profits  refer to the operational results in a certain 
accounting period, and it is the balance of various incomes 
minus various spendings in the course of operation, reflecting 
the total profits and losses of enterprises in reference period. 
Data are obtained from current year’s cumulative amount of 
total profits in the profit statement of the accounting record of 
enterprise. 
Annual Average Employees  refer to the number of 
persons engaged in the production and operation activities of 
enterprises in the reporting period, which are actually employed 
by the enterprises. 
 
