 
 
602 
Financial Intermediation 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Total Deposits  are the main items of financial sources 
of financial institutions, which include deposits of households, 
deposits of non-financial enterprises, deposits of government 
departments & organizations, fiscal deposits, deposits of 
non-banking financial institutions and overseas deposits. 
Total Loans  are the main items of financial uses of 
financial institutions, which include loans to households, loans 
to non-financial enterprises and government departments & 
organizations, loans to non-banking financial institutions and 
overseas loans. 
Insurance Companies  refer to commercial insurance 
companies of various forms registered by law and established 
in China with the approval of insurance regulatory agencies. 
Amount Insured  refers to the maximum that the 
insurant will get for the claim of the case insured.  
Premium  is the fee paid by the insurant to the insurer to 
obtain the obligation of compensation from the insurance 
within the agreed terms. 
Settled Claim  is the compensation paid by the insurer to 
the insurant in accordance with the insurance contract. 
Payment  includes payment for death, injury or medical 
treatment and payment at maturity. Payment for death, injury or 
medical treatment refers to the money paid to the insurant (or 
the beneficiary) in accordance with the life or health insurance 
contract when the insurant encounters accidents within the 
insured period covered in the contract. Payment at maturity 
refers to the payment to the insurant in accordance with the life 
insurance contract at the end of the insured period. 
Aggregate Financing to the Real Economy (Flow) refers 
to the total volume of financing provided by the financial 
system to the real economy over a period of time. It includes: 
RMB loans, foreign currency-denominated loans (RMB 
equivalent), credit loans, entrusted loans, undiscounted 
banker’s acceptances, corporate bonds, government bonds, 
domestic equity financing of non-financial enterprises, 
investment real estate, premium of insurance, etc. 
Aggregate Financing to the Real Economy (Stock) 
refers to the total volume of financing provided by the financial 
system to the real economy at the end of a period (at the end of 
month, quarter or year). It includes: RMB loans, foreign 
currency-denominated loans (RMB equivalent), credit loans, 
entrusted loans, undiscounted banker’s acceptances, corporate 
bonds, government bonds, domestic equity financing of 
non-financial enterprises, investment real estate, etc. 
Number of Domestic Listed Companies  refers to the 
number of limited companies whose stocks issued are listed on 
the Shanghai or Shenzhen exchanges at the end of the statistical 
period. A listed company that issues both A and B shares at the 
same time are counted as one company by the date of listing. 
Total Issued Capital  also known as total stock of listed 
companies, refers to the total number of shares issued by 
domestic listed companies at the end of the statistical period, 
including A share capital, B share capital and other 
non-tradable domestic equity. 
Total Market Capitalization  refers to the total stock 
value according to the stock price of listed companies and the 
corresponding stock quantity at the end of the statistical period. 
Specific statistical coverage and calculation methods are as 
follows: if there is no trading price on the day, the closing price 
on the last trading day shall be adopted; the price of suspended 
listed shares shall be calculated at zero; the non-tradable shares 
of non-equity-restructured companies shall be calculated at the 
price of circulating A shares; the non-tradable shares of listed 
companies that issue only B shares shall not be calculated at the 
market value of their non-tradable shares on the same day. 
When calculating the market value of the right stock, the 
market value of the shares in transit (registered and unlisted) 
should be included. 
Value of Bonds in the Exchanges Issued  refers to the 
total amount of coupon issued by various types of bonds during 
the statistical period. It is calculated at the coverage of the first 
day of issue. 
Bonds Trading Turnover  refers to the total amount of 
all kinds of bonds traded during the statistical period, including 
the spot amount of bonds traded and the amount of bond 
repurchase traded. 
Number of Securities Investment Funds  refers to the 
number of fund products in the fund market at the end of the 
period. It is counted since the effective date of the fund contract 
(the establishment date of the fund), and is excluded from the 
statistics since the termination date of the fund contract. It is 
generally counted at the coverage of the main code of the 
Securities Regulatory Commission (the main contract of the 
fund). 
 
