 
 
373 
对外经济贸易 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
 Import and Export of Goods  refer to the value of 
commodities actually imported or exported across the border of 
China. They include the actual imports and exports through 
foreign trade, imported and exported goods under the 
processing and assembling trades and materials, supplies and 
gifts as aid given gratis between governments and by the 
United Nations and other international organizations, and 
contributions donated by overseas Chinese, compatriots in 
Hong Kong and Macao and Chinese with foreign citizenship, 
leasing commodities owned by tenant at the expiration of 
leasing period, the imported and exported commodities 
processed with imported materials, commodities trading in 
border areas, the imported and exported commodities and 
articles for public use of the Sino-foreign joint ventures, 
cooperative enterprises and ventures with sole foreign 
investment. Also included are import or export of samples and 
advertising goods for which CIF or FOB value are beyond the 
permitted ceiling (excluding goods of no trading or use value 
and free commodities for export), imported goods sold in China 
from bonded warehouses and other imported or exported goods. 
The indicator of the total imports and exports at customs can be 
used to observe the total size of external trade in a country. In 
accordance with the stipulation of the Chinese government, 
exports are calculated at FOB, while imports are calculated at 
CIF. 
Import or Export by Location of Importers/Exporters  
The location of importers or exporters refers to the place inside 
China’s customs territory where the importers or exporters are 
registered. 
Imports and Exports by Location of Domestic 
Consumers/Producers  The location of domestic consumers 
refers to the place inside China’s customs territory where the 
imported goods are to be consumed, utilized or destined for. 
The location of domestic producers refers to the place inside 
China’s customs territory where the exported goods are 
produced, manufactured or initially delivered.  
Import and Export of Services  refers to services 
provided between resident and non-resident units, including 
transportation, 
travel, 
construction, 
insurance, 
finance, 
telecommunications, computer and information, professional 
and management consultancy, intellectual property fee, 
personal, cultural or recreational services, maintenance and 
repair, processing, other business services, and government 
services. 
Foreign Investment refers to investment in China by 
legal or natural persons of foreign countries and of Hong Kong, 
Macau and Taiwan, in the form of cash、physical assets、
intangible assets and equity and others. Foreign direct 
investment refers to investment by investors from foreign 
countries and from Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan in a 
non-listed company, or the investment of over 10 percent or 
more in a listed company.  
Outward Direct Investment  refers to the economic 
activities of domestic investors focussing on controlling the 
operation and management of overseas enterprises. The content 
of overseas direct investment mainly reflects goal of lasting 
interest of one economic entity by investing in another 
economic entity. 
Overseas Contracted Projects refer to activities of 
contracting 
overseas 
construction 
projects 
by 
Chinese 
enterprises or any other units, which are stipulated in the 
Regulations on Administration of Foreign Contracted Project.  
Overseas Labour Services refer to operational activities 
of organizing labour force to go abroad providing services to 
foreign enterprises or agencies. 
 
 
