 
 
478 
Construction 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Statistical Units in the Construction Industry refer to 
corporate enterprises engaged in the construction of buildings 
and structures and in the installation of equipment. A corporate 
construction enterprise should have qualification certificates 
with independent accounting system, and should meet the 
following 3 requirements: a) being set up in line with relevant 
legal basis, having its full name, organization and location, and 
capable of taking civil liabilities; b) independently possessing 
and using its assets and assuming its liabilities, and entitled to 
sign contracts with other institutions; c) making independent 
accounts of its profits and losses, and capable of compiling its 
own balance sheet. 
Gross Output Value of Construction refers to total of 
construction products and services, expressed in monetary 
terms, produced or rendered by construction and installation 
enterprises during a given period of time. It includes: 
(1) Output value of construction projects:  the value of 
projects covered by the project budgets; 
(2) Output value of installation projects:  the value of the 
installation of equipment, and the value of installing 
prefabricated 
components 
into 
construction 
engineering 
products (excluding the value of the equipment to be installed); 
(3) Other output values: the output value of construction 
industry apart from that of construction projects and installation 
projects. It includes: output value of repair of buildings and 
structures; output value of manufacturing of non-standard 
equipment; 
overhead expenses 
received by 
contracted 
enterprises from the sub-contracted enterprises, and the 
completed output value of construction activities for which 
there is no clear definition. 
a. Output value of repair of buildings and structures:  the 
value created through the repairs of buildings or structures. It 
does not include the value of buildings or structures being 
repaired and the value of the repair of production equipment. 
b. Output value of manufactured non-standard equipment: 
refers to the value of non-standard production equipment, 
including raw materials and manufacturing cost, (i.e., kettles or 
tanks used by chemical plant or refinery; various fillers, 
triangle tanks, valves used in mines). It also includes the output 
value of non-standard equipment manufactured made by its 
subsidiary workshops for undertaking projects. 
Floor Space of Buildings under Construction refers to 
the total floor space area of buildings under construction in the 
reference period. It includes buildings new started; buildings 
started earlier and continued during the reference period; 
buildings suspended earlier but restarted during the reference 
period; buildings completed during the reference period; and 
buildings under construction but suspended during the 
reference period.  
Floor Space of Buildings Completed refers to the total 
floor space area of buildings that have been completed in the 
reference period in accordance with the requirements of the 
design, up to the standard for accommodation or putting into 
use, and have been checked and accepted by departments 
concerned as qualified or up to the standard of buildings 
completed and can be handed over for putting into use. 
 
