 
 
670 
Science and Technology 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Research and Experimental Development (R&D)  
refers to creative and systematic work undertaken in order to 
increase the stock of knowledge (including knowledge of 
humankind, culture and society) and to devise new applications 
of available knowledge. R&D includes 3 categories of activities: 
basic research, applied research and experimental development. 
The scale and intensity of R&D are widely used internationally 
to reflect the strength of S&T and the core competitiveness of a 
country in the world. 
Basic Research  refers to experimental or theoretical 
work undertaken primarily to acquire new knowledge of the 
underlying foundations of phenomena and observable facts, 
without any particular application or use in view. Basic 
research usually formulates hypotheses, theories or laws, and 
its results are mainly released or disseminated in the form of 
scientific papers or monographs or research reports.  
Applied Research  refers to original investigation 
undertaken in order to acquire new knowledge. It is directed 
primarily towards a specific, practical aim or objective. 
Purpose of the applied research is to identify the possible uses 
of results from basic research, or to explore new (fundamental) 
methods or new approaches. Results of applied research are 
expressed in the form of scientific papers, monographs, 
fundamental models or invention patents.  
Experimental Development  refers to systematic work, 
drawing on knowledge gained from research and practical 
experience and producing additional knowledge, which is 
directed to producing new products or processes or to 
improving existing products or processes. Results of 
experimental development activities are embodied in patents, 
exclusive technology, and monotype of new products or 
equipment.  
Product Innovation  refers to the introduction of new or 
significantly improved products by enterprises. The innovation 
should be reflected by the functions or features of the products, 
including improvement on technical specifications, materials, 
parts, user-friendliness etc. Simple appearance change or other 
subtle changes are not included, neither is direct reselling. The 
product must be new to the enterprise, but it is not necessarily 
new to other enterprises or the whole market.The products here 
cover both goods and services. Examples of innovation on 
goods include new energy vehicles and mobile phones with 
new functions; examples of innovation on services include new 
warranty service, such as significantly extended new warranty 
period of products. 
Process Innovation  refers to the implementation of new 
or significantly improved production methods, process 
equipments or supporting activities by enterprises. The 
innovation should be reflected by technology, equipment or 
process. It must be new to the enterprise, but it is not 
necessarily new to other enterprises or the whole market. 
Simple change of organization and management mode is not 
included. Supporting activities cover purchase, logistics, 
account and compute activities. 
Organizational (management) Innovation  refers to the 
adoption of a completely new organizational management 
mode, which has never been used before. It mainly involves the 
business model, organizational structure or external relations of 
enterprises. It does not include pure mergers or acquisitions. 
Organizational (management) innovation should be the result 
of strategic decision-making of enterprise management. The 
term "new" here means that it must be new to the enterprise, 
but not necessarily new to other enterprises or the whole 
market. 
Marketing Innovation  refers to the implementation of 
completely new marketing concepts or marketing strategies that 
have never been used before. It mainly involves product 
(service) design or packaging, product (service) promotion, 
product (service) sales channels, product (service) pricing and 
so on. It does not include seasonal, cyclical and other 
conventional marketing changes. The term "new" here means 
that it must be new to the enterprise, but not necessarily new to 
other enterprises or the whole market. 
R&D Personnel  refer to persons of R&D activities units 
engaged in basic research, applied research, and experimental 
development at the reference period, including persons of 
directly participating in the three activities above, as well as 
management and direct service staff related to R&D activities, 
such as literature provision, material supply, equipment 
maintenance staff, it excludes persons providing indirect 
support and ancillary services, such as canteen and security 
staff. 
Full-time Equivalent of R&D Personnel  refers to the 
ratio of working hours actually spent on R&D during a specific 
reference period (usually a calendar year) divided by the total 
number of hours conventionally worked in the same period by 
an individual or by a group. The measurement unit of the ratio 
is “man-years”. This is an internationally comparable indicator 
of S&T manpower input. 
Expenditure on R&D  refers to the real expenditure of 
surveyed units on their own R&D activities in reporting period. 
It is divided into current expenditures and gross fixed capital 
expenditures for R&D according to the nature of expenditure.  
It doesn’t include the fees transferred to cooperated or entrusted 
agencies on R&D activities. 
Expenditure on R&D from Government Funds  refers 
to the expenditure of funds on R&D activities from government 
agencies at different levels, including appropriate funds on 
 
 
671 
科学技术 
science and technology from financial departments, and the real 
expenditure of other fiscal functional funds on R&D activities 
from government agencies. 
Expenditure on R&D from Enterprises Funds  refers 
to the expenditure of all kinds of funds on R&D activities from 
enterprises. In terms of enterprises, it refers to the expenditure 
of self-raised funds of enterprises, funds from other enterprises 
through entrustment, loans from financial institutions on R&D 
activities. In terms of public institutions, such as institution of 
scientific research and universities, it refers to the expenditure 
of funds from enterprises through entrustment. 
Number of R&D Projects (subjects)  R&D Projects 
(subjects) are the basic forms of R&D activities, The project 
task, target, personnel and expenditure are usually defined by 
R&D activity execution unit according to project approval 
specification or contract document. 
Full-time Equivalent of Personnel on R&D Projects 
(subjects)  refers to the full-time equivalent of persons 
actually engaged in R&D projects (subjects). 
Expenditure on R&D Projects (subjects)  refers to the 
real expenditure of internal funds of the surveyed units on 
research and test of R&D projects (subjects) at the reference 
year, including service fee, other daily expenditure, cost for 
fixed assets, cost of external process, it excludes expenditure of 
funds transferred to other cooperated or entrusted units of the 
projects.  
Sales Income of New Products  refers to the sales 
income of new products of the enterprises at the reference 
period. New products refer to products developed and produced 
with new technologies and designs or improved in structure, 
material, process or other aspects so that their performance are 
improved or their functions expanded. New products include 
those affirmed by government authorities in their validity 
period and also those developed by enterprises without the 
affirmation of government authorities within one year after 
they are put into production. 
Patent  is an abbreviation for the patent right and refers 
to the exclusive right of ownership by the inventors or 
designers for the creation or inventions, given from the China 
National Intellectual Property Administration after due process 
of assessment and approval in accordance with the Patent Law. 
Patents are granted for inventions, utility models and designs. 
This indicator reflects the achievements of S&T and design 
with independent intellectual property. 
Patented Inventions  refer to new technical proposals to 
the products or methods or their modifications. This is 
universal core indicator reflecting the technologies with 
independent intellectual property. 
Patented Utility Models  refer to the practical and new 
technical proposals on the shape and structure of the product or 
the combination of both. This indicator reflects the condition of 
technological results with certain technical content. 
Designs  refer to the aesthetics and industrially 
applicable new designs for the shape, pattern and colour of the 
product, or their combinations. This indicator reflects the 
appearance design achievements with independent intellectual 
property. 
 
 
