 
 
875 
香港特别行政区主要社会经济指标 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Mid-year Population  is compiled using the “resident 
population” approach.  The population estimate compiled 
under the “resident population” approach is referred to as the 
Hong Kong Resident Population, which comprises “Usual 
Residents” and “Mobile Residents”. “Usual Residents” include 
two categories of people: (a) Hong Kong Permanent Residents 
who have stayed in Hong Kong for at least 3 months during the 
6 months before or for at least 3 months during the 6 months 
after the reference time-point, regardless of whether they are in 
Hong Kong or not at the reference time-point; and (b) Hong 
Kong Non-permanent Residents who are in Hong Kong at the 
reference time-point.   For those Hong Kong Permanent 
Residents who are not "Usual Residents", they are classified as 
"Mobile Residents" if they have stayed in Hong Kong for at 
least 1 month but less than 3 months during the 6 months 
before or for at least 1 month but less than 3 months during the 
6 months after the reference time-point, regardless of whether 
they are in Hong Kong or not at the reference time-point.  
Under the “resident population” approach, visitors are not part 
of the Hong Kong population. 
Crude Birth Rate  refers to the number of live births in 
a given year per 1000 mid-year population of that year.  
Crude Death Rate  refers to the number of deaths in a 
given year per 1000 mid-year population of that year. 
Infant Mortality Rate  refers to the number of deaths of 
age under one in a given year per 1000 live births in that year. 
Total Fertility Rate  refers to the average number of 
children that would be born alive to 1000 women during their 
lifetime if they were to pass through their childbearing ages 
15-49 experiencing the age specific fertility rates prevailing in 
a given year. 
Expectation of Life at Birth  refers to the number of 
years of life that a person born in a given year is expected to 
live if he/she was subject to the prevalent mortality conditions 
as reflected by the set of age-sex specific mortality rates for 
that year. 
Labour Force  refers to the land-based non-institutional 
population aged 15 and over who satisfy the criteria for being 
classified as employed population or unemployed population. 
Labour Force Participation Rate  refers to the 
proportion 
of 
labour 
force 
in 
the 
total 
land-based 
non-institutional population aged 15 and over. 
Employed Persons  refer to those persons aged 15 and 
over who have been at work for pay or profit during the 7 days 
before enumeration or have had formal job attachment.  
Unpaid family workers and persons who were on leave/holiday 
during the 7 days before enumeration are included.  
Unemployed Persons  refer to those persons aged 15 
and over who (a) have not had a job and should not have 
performed any work for pay or profit during the 7 days before 
enumeration; and (b) have been available for work during the 7 
days before enumeration; and (c) have sought work during the 
30 days before enumeration.  If a person aged 15 or over 
fulfils the conditions (a) and (b) above but has not sought work 
during the 30 days before enumeration because he/she believes 
that work is not available, he/she is still classified as 
unemployed, being regarded as a so-called “discouraged 
worker”. Unemployed population also includes persons without 
a job who have sought work but have not been available for 
work because of temporary sickness; and persons without a job 
who have been available for work but have not sought work 
because they have made arrangements to take up a new job or 
to start business on a subsequent date; or were expecting to 
return to their original jobs. 
Unemployment Rate  refers to the proportion of 
unemployed persons in the labour force. 
Monthly Employment Earnings  refer to earnings 
(before deduction of Mandatory Provident Fund contributions) 
from all jobs during the month before enumeration.  For 
employees, they include wage and salary, bonus, commission, 
tips, housing allowance, overtime allowance, attendance 
allowance and other cash allowances. However, back pays are 
excluded.  For employers and self-employed, they refer to 
amounts drawn from the self-owned enterprise for personal and 
household use.  If information on the amounts drawn for 
personal and household use is not available, data on net 
earnings from business would be collected instead. 
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)  is a measure of the 
total value of production of all resident producing units of an 
economy in a specified period (typically a year or a quarter), 
before deducting the consumption of fixed capital. 
Per Capita GDP  is obtained by dividing the total GDP 
in a year by the mid-year population of that economy in the 
same year. 
Gross National Income (GNI)  is a measure of the total 
income earned by residents of an economy from engaging in 
various economic activities, irrespective of whether the 
economic activities are carried out within the economic 
territory of the economy or outside.  In other words, in 
compiling GNI, income earned by residents from engaging in 
various economic activities within or outside the economic 
territory are included, whereas income earned by non-residents 
from engaging in economic activities within the economic 
territory are excluded. GNI is computed as follows: 
GNI = GDP + Net external primary income flows 
= GDP + Primary income earned by residents  
from outside the economic territory -  
Primary income earned by non-residents  
from within the economic territory 
Primary income  comprises investment income and 
compensation of employees (CE).  Investment income 
includes direct investment income (DII), portfolio investment 
income (PII) and other investment income (OII) as well as 
income on reserve assets (RA). 
Per capita GNI  of an economy is obtained by dividing 
GNI in a year by the mid-year population of that economy in 
the same year. 
Balance of Payments (BoP)  is a statistical statement 
 
 
876 
Main Social and Economic Indicators of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
that systematically summarises, for a specific time period 
(typically a year or a quarter), the economic transactions of an 
economy with the rest of the world (i.e. between residents and 
non-residents).  A BoP account comprises two broad accounts : 
(a) the current account; and (b) the capital and financial 
account. 
Current Account  measures the flows of goods, services, 
primary income and secondary income between residents and 
non-residents. 
Goods  under the BoP current account mainly cover 
general merchandise, net exports of goods under merchanting 
and non-monetary gold.  
Services  under the BoP current account mainly cover 
manufacturing services, transport, travel, insurance and pension 
services, financial services and other services.   
Primary Income Account  shows the amounts 
receivable and payable abroad in return for providing/obtaining 
use of labour, financial resources or natural resources to/from 
non-residents.  The concepts and definitions of primary 
income under the current account of the BoP are the same as 
those of the external primary income flows under GNI. 
Secondary Income Account  records current transfers 
between residents and non-residents.  Current transfers are 
transactions in which real or financial resources that are likely 
to be consumed immediately or shortly are provided without 
the receipt of equivalent economic values in return.  Current 
transfers are unilateral in nature and are offsetting entries in the 
BoP account for one-sided transactions. Examples include 
workers' remittances, donations, official assistance and 
pensions. 
Capital Account  measures external transactions in 
capital transfers, and the acquisition and disposal of 
non-produced, non-financial assets (such as trademarks and 
brand names).  Examples of capital transfers include 
forgiveness of debts by creditors, and cash transfers involving 
the acquisition or disposal of fixed assets. 
Financial Account  records transactions in financial 
assets and liabilities between residents and non-residents.  It 
shows how an economy’s external transactions are settled.  
Transactions in the financial account are classified by function 
(i.e. the purpose of the investment) into direct investment, 
portfolio investment, financial derivatives, other investment 
and reserve assets. 
Direct Investment  refers to external investment in 
which an investor of an economy acquires a lasting interest and 
a significant degree of influence or an effective voice in the 
management of an enterprise located in another economy.  For 
statistical purpose, an effective voice is taken as being 
equivalent to a holding of 10% or more of the voting power in 
an enterprise. 
Portfolio 
Investment 
 
refers 
to 
investment 
in 
non-resident equity securities and debt securities (e.g. bonds 
and notes, money market instruments), other than that included 
in direct investment or reserve assets.  Compared with direct 
investors, portfolio investors have no lasting interest or 
influence in the management of the enterprises concerned.  A 
holding of less than 10% of the voting power in an enterprise is 
regarded as portfolio investment. 
Financial Derivatives  are financial instruments that are 
linked to another specific financial instrument, indicator or 
commodity, and through which specific financial risks (such as 
interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, equity and commodity 
price risks, credit risk, and so on) can be traded in their own 
right in financial markets.  Financial derivatives include 
option-type contracts (e.g. warrants and options) and 
forward-type contracts (e.g. futures, interest rate swaps, 
currency swaps, forward rate agreements, forward foreign 
exchange contracts). 
Other Investment  refers to other financial claims on 
and liabilities to non-residents that are not classified as direct 
investment, portfolio investment, financial derivatives or 
reserve assets.  Other investment includes non-marketable 
loans, currency and deposits, trade credits and advances, and 
other assets/liabilities.  
Reserve Assets  are external assets that are readily 
available to and controlled by the monetary authority of an 
economy (which refers to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority 
in the case of Hong Kong) for meeting balance of payments 
financing needs, for intervention in exchange markets to 
regulate the currency exchange rate of that economy, and for 
other related purposes (such as maintaining confidence in the 
currency and the economy, and serving as a basis for foreign 
borrowing). 
International Investment Position (IIP)  is a balance 
sheet showing the stock of external financial assets and 
liabilities of an economy at a particular time point. The 
difference between the external financial assets and liabilities is 
the net IIP of the economy, which represents either its net claim 
on or net liability to the rest of the world.  Being fully 
consistent with the BoP financial account, IIP is also 
categorised by type of investment.  Assets and liabilities are 
divided into direct investment, portfolio investment, financial 
derivatives and other investment.  The asset side of IIP also 
includes the reserve assets.  For detailed explanation on 
investment components, please refer to the explanatory notes 
on the components of the financial account of the BoP account. 
Net IIP  is the difference between total external financial 
assets and total external financial liabilities.   
Index of Industrial Production  measures the changes 
in local industrial output in real terms, i.e. changes in the 
volume of local production after discounting the effect of price 
changes. 
Usable Floor Area  is defined as the aggregate of the 
areas of the floor or floors in a storey or a building excluding 
any staircases, public circulation space, lift landings, lavatories, 
water-closets, kitchens and any space occupied by machinery 
for any lift, air-conditioning system or similar service provided 
for the building. 
Buildings with Consents to Commence Work  refer to 
buildings with “Consents” to commence building works issued 
by the Buildings Department.  Such “Consents” are issued to 
private development projects (including Hong Kong Housing 
Society’s projects). 
First Submission  refers to plans for a building project 
which are first submitted to the Building Authority for 
approval. 
Major Revision  refers to building plans which have 
been so extensively revised that they must be fundamentally 
 
 
877 
香港特别行政区主要社会经济指标 
re-assessed. 
Owner-occupier  refers to a household which owns the 
quarters it occupies. 
Sole Tenant  refers to a household which rents the whole 
quarters it occupies from someone who lives outside the 
quarters without sharing it with other household(s) or 
subletting. 
Co-tenant  refers to two or more households each of 
which rents part of the quarters from someone who lives 
outside the quarters. 
Main Tenant  refers to a household which rents the 
whole quarters it occupies from someone who lives outside the 
quarters and sublets part of it to other household(s). 
Sub-tenant  refers to a household which rents part of the 
quarters from someone who lives in the same quarters. 
Rent Free  refers to a household which occupies an 
accommodation free, with or without the owner’s permission. 
This does not include owner-occupiers or households 
occupying accommodation provided by employers. 
Accommodation Provided by Employer  refers to a 
household which occupies an accommodation provided by the 
employer of one of the household members.  This also 
includes households occupying quarters leased from employers 
at a nominal rent.  If a household member uses housing 
allowance 
given 
by 
his/her 
employer 
for 
renting 
accommodation, the tenure is not regarded as “accommodation 
provided by employer”. 
Imports  are goods which have been produced or 
manufactured in places outside the jurisdiction of Hong Kong 
and brought into Hong Kong for local use or for subsequent 
re-export as well as Hong Kong products re-imported.  Their 
values are recorded on cost, insurance and freight (c.i.f.) basis. 
Total Exports  comprise domestic exports and re-exports.  
Domestic exports are the natural produce of Hong Kong or 
products of a manufacturing process in Hong Kong which has 
changed permanently and substantially the shape, nature, form 
or utility of the basic materials used in manufacture.  
Processes such as simple diluting, packing, bottling, drying, 
simple assembling, sorting, decorating, etc., do not confer 
Hong Kong origin. Re-exports are products which have 
previously been imported into Hong Kong and which are 
re-exported without having undergone in Hong Kong a 
manufacturing process which has changed permanently and 
substantially the shape, nature, form or utility of the basic 
materials used in the manufacture.  Their values are recorded 
on free-on-board (f.o.b.) basis. 
Exports to the Mainland of China for Outward 
Processing  refer to raw materials or semi-manufactures 
exported from or through Hong Kong to the mainland of China 
for processing with a contractual arrangement for subsequent 
re-importation of the processed goods into Hong Kong. 
Imports from the Mainland of China Related to 
Outward Processing in the Mainland  refer to processed 
goods imported to Hong Kong from the mainland of China, of 
which all or part of the raw materials or semi-manufactures 
have been under contractual arrangement exported from or 
through Hong Kong to the mainland of China for processing. 
Re-exports of the Mainland of China Origin to Other 
Places (excluding the Mainland of China) Involving 
Outward Processing in the Mainland of China  refer to 
processed goods re-exported through Hong Kong, of which all 
or part of the raw materials or semi-manufactures have been 
exported from or through Hong Kong to the mainland of China 
for processing with a contractual arrangement for subsequent 
re-importation of the processed goods into Hong Kong. 
Direct Investment  refers to external investment in 
which an investor of an economy acquires a lasting interest and 
a significant degree of influence or an effective voice in the 
management of an enterprise located in another economy.  For 
statistical purpose, an effective voice is taken as being 
equivalent to a holding of 10% or more of the voting power in 
an enterprise.  Direct investment comprises equity and 
investment fund shares and debt instruments.  Equity and 
investment fund shares include equity in branches, shares in 
subsidiaries and associates, investment fund shares and 
reinvestment of earnings (which refers to the investors’ share of 
earnings not distributed by branches, subsidiaries, associates or 
investment funds).  Debt instruments mainly involve 
inter-company debt transactions.  These include short-term 
and long-term borrowing and lending of funds between parent 
companies and their branches, subsidiaries and associates. 
Inward Direct Investment  refers to direct investment  
by a non-Hong Kong resident on a Hong Kong resident 
enterprise.  Typical examples of inward direct investment are 
multinational corporations’ branches and subsidiaries operating 
in Hong Kong. 
Outward Direct Investment  refers to direct investment 
by a Hong Kong resident on a non-resident enterprise. 
Position of Direct Investment  refers to the value of 
investment abroad or investment received from abroad of Hong 
Kong residents at a specified date. 
Flow of Direct Investment refers to the additions/ 
withdrawals of investment abroad or investment received from 
abroad of Hong Kong residents during a period. 
Loan Fund  finances loans and advances for such 
schemes as housing loans and education loans.  The main 
sources of income are appropriations from the General 
Revenue Account, loan repayments and interest on loans. 
Effective Exchange Rate Index (EERI) for the Hong 
Kong Dollar (HKD) is an index which measures movements 
in the weighted average of the exchange rate of the HKD 
against the currencies of major trading partners of Hong Kong.  
It serves as an indicator for measuring the overall strength of 
the HKD relative to selected currencies.  The index currently 
uses January 2020 as the base and includes 18 currencies. 
Exchange Rates Between the Hong Kong Dollar and 
Other Currencies  refer to the closing middle market 
telegraphic transfer rates or notes rates. 
Authorized Institutions  include licensed banks, 
restricted licence banks and deposit-taking companies.  
Licensed banks can accept deposits of any size and any term of 
maturity. With the final phase of interest rate deregulation came 
into effect on 3 July 2001, there is no restriction on interest rate 
payable.  As for restricted licence banks, they can accept time 
deposits in amounts of not less than HK$500,000 with any term 
of maturity. Deposit-taking companies can however accept time 
deposits in amounts of not less than HK$100,000 with a term 
of maturity of at least three months.  Both restricted licence 
 
 
878 
Main Social and Economic Indicators of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
banks and deposit-taking companies have no restriction on 
interest rate payable. 
Foreign Currency Swap Deposits  refer to deposits 
involving customers buying foreign currencies in the spot 
market and placing them as deposits with authorized 
institutions, while at the same time entering into a contract to 
sell such foreign currencies (principal plus interest) forward in 
line with the maturity of such deposits.  For most analytical 
purpose, they should be regarded as Hong Kong dollar time 
deposits. 
Money Supply M1  refers to the sum of legal tender 
notes and coins held by the public plus customers’ demand 
deposits placed with licensed banks. 
Money Supply M2  refers to the sum of M1 plus 
customers’ savings and time deposits with licensed banks, plus 
negotiable certificates of deposit issued by licensed banks held 
by non-authorized institutions. 
Money Supply M3  refers to the sum of M2 plus 
customer deposits with restricted licence banks (RLBs) and 
deposit-taking companies (DTCs) plus negotiable certificates 
of deposit issued by RLBs and DTCs held by non-authorized 
institutions. 
Hang Seng Index is a freefloat-adjusted market 
capitalisation-weighted index with capping on individual 
constituent weighting. The constituent stocks of the Hang Seng 
Index are grouped under four sub-indexes, namely Finance, 
Utilities, Properties, and Commerce and Industry. 
Consumer Price Index (CPI)  measures the changes 
over time in the price level of consumer goods and services 
generally purchased by households.  The year-on-year rate of 
change in the CPI is widely used as an indicator of the inflation 
affecting consumers.  Different CPI series are compiled to 
reflect the impact of consumer price changes on households in 
different expenditure ranges.  The CPI(A), CPI(B) and CPI(C) 
are compiled based on the expenditure patterns of households 
in the relatively low, medium and relatively high expenditure 
ranges respectively.  A Composite CPI is compiled based on 
the overall expenditure pattern of all the above households 
taken together to reflect the impact of consumer price changes 
on the household sector as a whole.  Educational Attainment  
refers to the highest level of education ever attained by a person 
in school or other educational institution, regardless of whether 
he/she had completed the course.  Only formal courses are 
counted as educational attainment.  A formal course shall be 
one that lasts for at least one academic year, requires specific 
academic qualifications for entrance (except sub-degree, 
associate degree, degree and post-graduate courses offered by 
the Open University of Hong Kong) and includes examinations 
or specific academic assessment procedures. 
Social Security Schemes  aim to provide for the basic 
and special needs of the members of the community who are in 
need of financial or material assistance.  The non-contributory 
social security system comprises Comprehensive Social 
Security Assistance Scheme, Social Security Allowance 
Scheme, 
Criminal 
and 
Law 
Enforcement 
Injuries 
Compensation Scheme, Traffic Accident Victims Assistance 
Scheme and Emergency Relief. 
Comprehensive Social Security Assistance Scheme  
provides a safety net for those who cannot support themselves 
financially.  It is designed to bring their income up to a 
prescribed level to meet their basic needs.  An applicant must 
satisfy the residence requirements and pass both the income 
and assets tests. 
Social Security Allowance Scheme  includes Normal 
Disability Allowance, Higher Disability Allowance, Old Age 
Allowance (OAA), Normal Old Age Living Allowance, Higher 
Old Age Living Allowance, Guangdong (GD) Scheme and 
Fujian (FJ) Scheme.  The OAA and Disability Allowance 
provide a monthly allowance to Hong Kong residents who are 
70 years of age or above or who are severely disabled to meet 
their special needs arising from old age or disability 
respectively.  The Old Age Living Allowance (OALA) 
(renamed as Normal OALA), launched in April 2013, and the 
Higher OALA,  launched in June 2018, are to provide a 
monthly allowance to supplement the living expenses of Hong 
Kong residents aged 65 or above who are in need of financial 
support.  The GD Scheme was launched in October 2013 and 
the FJ Scheme was launched in April 2018.  The OALA 
(including Normal OALA and Higher OALA) under the GD 
Scheme and the FJ Scheme were launched in January 2020. 
Criminal and Law Enforcement Injuries Compen- 
sation Scheme  aims to provide financial assistance to 
persons (or to their dependants in cases of death) who are 
injured as a result of a crime of violence, or by a law 
enforcement officer using a weapon in the execution of his duty.  
The Scheme is non-means-tested.  
Traffic Accident Victims Assistance Scheme  aims to 
provide speedy financial assistance to road traffic accident 
victims (or to their dependants in cases of death) on a 
non-means tested basis, regardless of the element of fault 
leading to the occurrence of the accident. Payments are made 
for personal injuries, while loss of or damage to property is not 
covered. 
Emergency Relief  is provided for victims of natural and 
other disasters such as fire, typhoon, flood, rainstorm, landslide, 
house collapse, and also for evacuees of buildings and premises 
considered to be dangerous under Closure Orders. 
 
 
 
