 
 
899 
澳门特别行政区主要社会经济指标 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)  reflects the total value 
of goods produced and services provided by the Macao Special 
Administrative Region in a year. GDP estimates in this 
statistical yearbook are compiled under both the expenditure 
and the production approaches. The expenditure-based GDP is 
measured as the sum of household consumption expenditure; 
government final consumption expenditure; gross fixed capital 
formation; changes in inventories; and net exports (exports less 
imports) of goods and services. The production-based GDP, 
which is measured as the sum of gross value added of all 
economic activities, can be used to evaluate the industrial 
structure of Macao. 
Infant Mortality Rate  Number of infants died under 
one year old per 1,000 live births within the reference period. 
Crude Birth Rate  Live births per 1,000 population 
within the reference period. 
Crude Mortality Rate  Deaths per 1,000 population 
within the reference period. 
Pre-primary, Primary and Secondary Education  
Refers to systematic education designed and intended for 
children and young people by which they may progress from 
pre-primary through secondary education; secondary education 
also covers vocational-technical education. 
Pre-primary Education  Has a duration of 3 years and  
designated for children aged 3-5 years old. Children reaching 3 
years old as at 31st December of the enrolment year are eligible 
to the first year of pre-primary education. 
Primary Education  Has a duration of 6 years. Children 
completing pre-primary education or reaching 6 years old as at 
31st December of the enrolment year are eligible to the first 
year of primary education. The maximum age of attending 
primary education is 15.  
Secondary Education  Comprises 2 stages, viz. junior 
secondary and senior secondary. Pre-university course is not 
considered as secondary education. 
(1)Junior secondary education has a duration of 3 years. 
Students completing primary education are eligible. The 
maximum age for this level is 18; however, under special 
circumstances, schools can accept enrolment outside this age 
limit.  
(2)Senior secondary education has a duration of 3 years. 
Students completing junior secondary are eligible. The 
maximum age for this level is 21; however, under special 
circumstances, schools can accept enrolment outside this age 
limit.  
Higher Education  Refers to instruction by theory, 
practice and the like in science, culture and technology; it 
includes university education and post-secondary education 
providing associate degree or diploma programmes. 
Economically Active Population (Labour Force)   
Individuals aged 16 and above who are available to participate 
in the production of goods and/or services during the 7 days 
before 
enumeration. 
It 
comprises 
the 
employed 
and 
unemployed. 
Employed Population  Individuals aged 16 and above 
who work for pay or profit for at least 1 hour during the 7 days 
before enumeration. It also includes unpaid family workers, 
employees who are absent from work but have job attachment 
to the employer, as well as employers or the self-employed who 
are on leave. 
Unemployed Population  Refer to individuals aged 16 
and above who fulfil the following conditions: 
1) have neither a job nor job attachment to the employer during 
the 7 days before enumeration; and  
2) have been available for work during the 7 days before 
enumeration; and 
3) have sought work for the past 30 days. 
The unemployed comprise individuals searching for their first 
job and those searching for a new job. 
Underemployed Population  Irrespective of status in 
employment, employed persons who work involuntarily for 
less than 35 hours during the 7 days before enumeration, and 
are available to take on additional work or are looking for extra 
work during the 30 days before enumeration. Thus, employed 
persons who are on unpaid leave during the 7 days before 
enumeration and who meet the aforementioned criteria are 
considered as underemployed population. 
Labour Force Participation Rate  The proportion of 
the economically active population to the population aged 16 
and above. 
Unemployment Rate  Percentage share of the number of 
unemployed to the labour force. 
Underemployment Rate  Percentage share of the 
number of the underemployed to the labour force. 
Visitor  Any person taking a trip to the Macao Special 
Administrative Region (SAR), which is not his/her usual 
environment, for less than a year, for any main purpose other 
than to be employed by a resident entity in the Macao SAR. 
Average Occupancy Rate of Hotels  The percentage 
share of occupied rooms to the total number of available rooms 
of the hotel sector. 
Imports  Entry of foreign produced merchandise to 
Macao, excluding re-imports and transit. 
Exports  Merchandise transported out of Macao, 
excluding temporary exports and transit goods. 
Domestic Exports  Transport of Macao produced 
merchandise out of Macao. 
Re-exports  Transport of merchandise previously 
imported out of Macao, without processing; even with 
processing, is not qualified to use Macao as the origin of the 
 
 
900 
Main Social and Economic Indicators of Macao Special Administrative Region  
merchandise. 
Transit  Merchandise passing by Macao to the next 
destination. 
Country of Origin  Country or territory where the crops 
are grown, minerals are mined and products are manufactured. 
If a production process is carried out in two or more countries 
or territories, the origin will be the country or territory where 
the processing of the merchandise takes its final form. 
Repacking, sorting or mixing is not considered as the final 
phase of processing. When a country has specific rules 
regarding the country of origin on merchandise imports, those 
rules shall prevail. 
Country of Destination  The final country or territory 
where the goods are delivered, irrespective of interruption 
during transportation. As far as no commercial exchange has 
taken place in the transit country or territory, the final country 
or territory arrived is considered as the destination. 
Terms of Trade Index  Ratio of the unit value index of 
exports of goods to that of imports of goods. 
Building Unit  Including residential, shop, office and 
industrial units, parking spaces, hotel and other units. 
Gross Floor Area  The sum of the area of each floor of 
the building, measured to the outer surface of the outer walls 
including the area of lobbies, stairs, lift landings and communal 
space. 
Consumer Price Index  reflects the price change of a 
representative “basket” of goods and services consumed by 
households of Macao at different periods. 
Money Supply (M1)  refers to the sum of currency in 
circulation and demand deposits. 
Money Supply (M2)  refers to the sum of money supply 
(M1) and quasi-monetary liabilities; the latter consist of savings 
deposits, notice deposits, time deposits, other deposits and 
certificates of deposit. 
Financial Transactions  comprise financial assets and 
financial liabilities.
 
 
