 
 
795 
公共管理、社会保障和社会组织 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Approval for Arrest  refers to the decision made by 
people’s procuratorate office, in accordance with the law and 
relevant facts and after due investigation, to approve the arrest 
of the suspect(s) as proposed by the public security departments, 
state security departments or prisons authority. This indicator 
reflects approved arrests made by people’s procuratorate offices 
that are proposed by related departments. 
Decision on Arrest  refers to decision made by the 
people’s procuratorate office, in accordance with laws, to arrest 
the suspect(s) in the cases that are accepted and to be 
investigated by the procurators office. This indicator mainly 
reflects the decision on execution of the authority of arrests by 
people’s procuratorate office. 
Presenting Protest Appeal  refers to those protests 
presented by local People's Procuratorate at any level who 
considers that there exists some definite error in a judgment or 
order of first instance made by a People's Court at the same 
level to the People's Court at the next higher level, including 
the protests raised in accordance with the second instance and 
protests raised in accordance with procedure for trial 
supervision. 
Supervision of Case Registered  refers to the actions 
made by the People's Procuratorate to supervise the criminal 
cases registered by investigation authorities, including 
supervision of the cases which have wrongly not been 
registered and have wrongly been registered. 
Supervision of Case Filing  includes both the 
supervision of the registrations by the investigation authorities 
and the supervision of the execution of the notifications to 
register after the investigation authorities are requested to state 
reasons for not registering a case. 
Juvenile Offenders  refers to the offenders between 14 
to 25 convicted guilty by the court during the reporting period, 
and those between 14 to 18 are defined as minor offenders. 
Administrative Cases  refer to cases in which citizens, 
legal persons and other organizations consider that administrative 
acts of administrative organs and staff members of administrative 
organs infringe upon their legitimate rights and interests, and 
bring administrative proceedings to the people's courts for 
hearing according to law by the people's courts. 
Administrative Compensation Cases  refer to cases in 
which citizens, legal persons or other organizations consider 
that their legitimate rights and interests are infringed by the 
illegal exercise of their powers and powers by administrative 
organs and their staff members, and bring compensation 
lawsuits to the people's court, separately or together with 
administrative lawsuits, for hearing at the people's court 
according to law. 
Notarization (certification)  refer to legally binding 
judicial notary documents, developed at the request of the 
interested party based on facts and the law following certain 
legal proceedings. 
Number of Labour Disputes Cases Accepted  refers to 
the number of cases of labour disputes arbitration submitted 
that, after review by the labour dispute arbitration committees 
in line with the relevant national laws and regulations, are 
accepted and registered. 
Basic Endowment Insurance for Urban Workers 
1. Number of workers covered  refers to staff and 
workers participating in the basic endowment insurance for 
urban workers at the end of the reference period, who have 
already had payment records in social security management 
agencies, including those who have interrupt payment without 
terminating the insurance programme. Those who have 
registered in the programme but with no payment records are 
not included. 
2. Number of retirees covered  refers to the number of 
retirees participating in the basic endowment insurance for 
urban workers and the pension paid by the pension insurance 
fund by the end of the reference period. 
3. Revenue  refers to payments made by employers and 
employees participating in the basic endowment insurance for 
urban workers in accordance with the basis and proportion 
stipulated in state regulations, and income from other sources 
that become the source of endowment insurance fund, 
including the premium paid by employers and staff and 
workers, interest income, entrusted investment income, 
subsidies from higher level agencies, income as transfer from 
subordinate agencies, transferred income, government financial 
subsidies and other income. 
4. Expenses  refer to personal endowment insurance 
payment made to those covered in the basic endowment 
insurance for urban workers according to related national 
policies on scope and standard of expenditure, as well as 
expenditure which arises due to shift of the insurance 
relationship or adjustment of funds among agencies, transfer to 
agencies at higher level, including: basic endowment insurance, 
medical fees, funeral subsidies, compensation payments, 
disability allowance, expenses on subsidies to lower 
subordinates, expenses as transfer to agencies at higher level, 
transferred expenditure and other expenditure. 
5. Balance  refers to the balance of the basic endowment 
insurance funds for urban workers at the end of the reference 
period after deducting expenses from revenue. 
Basic Endowment Insurance for Urban and Rural 
Residents 
1. Participants  refers to people participating in the basic 
endowment insurance for urban and rural residents who 
registered with the participation and established payment 
records, and who were 60 years old or above when the system 
 
 
796 
Public Management, Social Security and Social Organizations 
was established and registered with the participation. Those 
who cancelled their registration are not included. 
2. Revenue  refers to the revenue from the payments made, 
in accordance with related regulations of the government, by 
individuals participating in the basic endowment insurance for 
urban and rural residents and from the subsidies contributed by 
collectives, public finance and other sources. It includes the 
payment by individual participants, collective subsidies, financial 
subsidies, interest income, entrusted investment income, 
transferred income, subsidies from higher levels, contributions 
from lower levels, and income from other sources. 
3. Expenses  refers to payment made to those covered in 
the basic endowment insurance for urban and rural residents  
according to related national policies on scope and standard of 
expenditure. Also included are expenditures which arise due to 
movement of participants among different locations or system. 
It includes the payment to the individual participants, 
transferred expenditures, expenses on subsidies to lower 
subordinates, expenses as transfer to agencies at higher level, 
and other expenditures. 
4. Balance  refers to the balance of basic endowment 
insurance funds for urban and rural residents at the end of the 
reference period after deducting expenses from revenue. 
Basic Medical Insurance 
1. Participants  refers to the total number of people who 
participate in the basic medical insurance for workers and basic 
medical insurance for urban and rural residents at the end of the 
reference period. 
2. Revenue (birth insurance included)  refers to basic 
medical insurance fund income for employees (including birth 
insurance) and basic medical insurance fund income for urban 
and rural residents. The basic medical insurance fund income of 
employees (including birth insurance) includes basic medical 
insurance premium income (including birth insurance), interest 
income, financial subsidy income, other income, insurance 
premium income to be transferred, interest income to be 
transferred and transfer income. 
3. Expenses (birth insurance included)  refers to basic 
medical insurance fund expenditure for employees (including 
birth insurance) and basic medical insurance fund expenditure 
for urban and rural residents. Basic medical insurance fund 
expenditure for employees (including birth insurance) includes 
basic medical insurance treatment expenditure, birth insurance 
treatment 
expenditure, 
other 
expenditure 
and 
transfer 
expenditure. Basic medical insurance fund expenditure for 
urban and rural residents includes basic medical insurance 
treatment expenditure, serious illness insurance expenditure 
and other expenditure. 
4. Balance (birth insurance included)  refers to the 
accumulated balance of basic medical insurance fund 
(including birth insurance) at the end of the reporting period. 
Unemployment Insurance 
1. Participants  refers to the number of staff and workers 
in urban enterprises or institutions who have participated in the 
unemployment insurance, and other people who have 
participated according to local regulations at the end of the 
reference period, excluding the number of people receiving 
unemployment insurance benefits. 
2. Revenue  refers to the total unemployment insurance 
funds raised in the reference period, including unemployment 
insurance premium, interest income, financial subsidies, other 
revenue, and transferred revenue. 
3. Expenses refers to total expenses during the reference 
period to guarantee the basic livelihood of unemployed people, 
prevention of unemployment, and to encourage their 
re-employment. Included are unemployment relief, medical 
fees, funeral subsidies, compensation payments, training 
expenses, job placement expenses, other expenses, skills 
upgrading subsidy, job stabilization subsidy, other expenditures, 
transferred expenditure. 
4. Balance  refers to the balance of revenue after 
deducting expenses at the end of the reference period. 
Work-related Injury Insurance 
1.Participants  refers to staff and workers who have 
participated in the work-related injury insurance and employees 
who work as self-employed and have participated in the 
work-related injury insurance at the end of the reference period.  
2. Number of beneficiaries  refers to number of people 
who are paid by the work-related injury fund and enjoy the 
medical treatment, disability and death benefits during the 
annual report period. No double calculation is performed. 
3. Revenue  refers to payments made by employers 
participating in the work-related injury insurance programme in 
accordance with the basis and proportion stipulated in state 
regulations, and payment by enterprises of some industries 
where it is difficult to estimate the injury insurance premium 
directly according to the total wage bill in accordance with 
stipulated way, and revenue from other sources according to 
law that become source of work-related injury insurance fund, 
including revenue of injury insurance, interest income, 
subsidies from higher level agencies, revenue as transfer from 
subordinate agencies, and other revenues. 
4. Expenses  refers to payments made from work-related 
injury insurance funds to those who participated in the 
work-related injury insurance and their direct dependents 
within the scope and standards of expenditure according to 
related national policies, and other expenditure, including 
medical fees for work injury, injury and disability subsidies, 
death subsidies, labor capacity appraisal, injury prevention fees, 
expenses on subsidies to lower subordinates, expenses as 
transfer to agencies at higher level, and other expenditure. 
5. Balance  refers to the balance of the work-related 
injury funds at the end of the reference period. 
 
 
