 
 
696 
Education 
 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Regular and Vocational Higher Education Institutions 
refer to full-time universities, independently established 
schools, independent colleges, undergraduate level vocational 
schools, higher professional colleges, higher vocational 
colleges and other regular higher education institutions 
approved by the state according to law and implementing 
higher academic education.. 
Universities 
and 
independently 
established 
schools 
primarily provide normal courses at undergraduate and higher 
levels. 
Independent 
colleges 
mainly 
provide 
normal 
undergraduate courses. Undergraduate level vocational schools 
primarily provide undergraduate level vocational courses. 
Higher professional colleges and higher vocational colleges 
primarily provide undergraduate of short-cycle courses. Other 
regular higher education institutions refer to educational 
establishments, which are responsible for enrolling higher 
education students under the State Plan but not enumerated in 
the total number of schools, including: branch schools of 
regular higher education institutions and junior colleges. 
Adults 
Higher 
Education 
Institutions 
refer 
to 
educational establishments approved by the state according to 
law, enrolling personnel graduated from senior secondary 
school or with equivalent education, and providing higher 
education courses in forms of correspondence, spare time or 
full time, for adults. Adults higher education institutions 
include schools of higher education for staff and workers, 
schools of higher education for peasants, institutions of 
administration, 
educational 
colleges, 
independent 
correspondence colleges, radio and television universities and 
other educational establishments of higher education for adult. 
Other educational establishments of higher education for adult 
refer undertakings to enrol adult students under the State Plan 
but not enumerated in the number of schools. 
Government Appropriation for Education refers to the 
general public budget appropriation fund for education, 
educational funds budgeted by government funds, enterprise 
appropriation 
for 
enterprise-run 
schools, 
income 
from 
school-run enterprises and social services that are used for 
education purpose and other government appropriations for 
education. 
 
