 
 
728 
Public Health and Social Services 
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Health Care Institutions  refer to the units which have 
been qualified with the Certification of Health Care Institution,, 
or qualified with the Certification of Corporate Unit by the civil 
affairs, administration for industry and commerce, and 
engaging in medical care services, disease control services, 
health supervision services, or medicine research and on-job 
training, etc., including: hospitals, health care institutions at 
grass-root level, specialized public health institutions, and other 
health care institutions. 
Hospitals include general hospitals, traditional Chinese 
medicine hospitals, hospitals of integrated traditional Chinese 
and western medicine, nationalities hospitals, specialized 
hospitals and nursing hospitals, as well as affiliated hospitals of 
medical colleges, excluding specialized disease prevention and 
treatment institutes, maternal and child health centers and 
convalescent hospitals.  
Health Care Institutions at Grass-root Level  include 
community health service centers (stations), sub-district health 
centers, township health centers, village clinics, outpatient 
departments and clinics. 
Specialized Public Health Institutions include CDC, 
specialized disease prevention and treatment institutions, 
maternal and children health centers, health education 
institutions, emergency centers (first-aid stations), blood 
gathering and supplying institutions, health inspection 
institutions, and family planning technical service institutions 
headed by the health department. It does not include infectious 
hospital, tuberculosis hospital, schistosomiasis control hospital, 
mental hospital, health supervision (monitoring and testing) 
institution. 
Health Personnel  refer to all employees engaged in the 
health care institutions, such as hospitals, health care 
institutions at grass-root level, specialized public health 
institutions, and other health care institutions, including health 
technical personnel, village doctors and assistants, other 
technical personnel, administrative staffs and logistics technical 
workers. Data are based on the year end payroll, including 
personnel 
employed 
(including 
contract 
workers) 
and 
re-employed after retirement by the institution for more than 6 
months, excluding temporary workers, retired personnel, 
resigned personnel, personnel who have left the institution but 
kept the contract relation and personnel who are re-employed 
after retirement or temporarily employed for less than 6 
months.  
Health Technical Personnel  refer to the professional 
staff engaged in health care, including  licensed physicians 
and physician assistants, registered nurses, pharmacists, 
laboratory and imaging technicians, health care supervisors and 
intern doctors, pharmacists, nurses, and technical personnel, 
excluding health technical personnel engaged in management 
(e.g. president, vice president and secretary of the party 
committee etc). 
Licensed Physicians  refer to the medical workers with 
licenses of qualified doctors and are employed in medical 
treatment, disease prevention or healthcare institutions, 
excluding the licensed doctors engaged in management. The 
physicians are divided into 4 categories: clinician, Chinese 
medicine, stomatology and public health. 
Licensed Physician Assistants  refer to the medical 
workers with licenses of qualified assistant doctors and are 
employed in medical treatment, disease prevention or 
healthcare institutions, excluding the licensed assistant doctors 
engaged in management. Physician assistants are divided into 4 
categories: clinician, Chinese medicine, stomatology and public 
health. 
Number of Health Technical Personnel per 1000 
Population  The formula is:  
Number of health technical personnel per 1000 population 
= number of health technical personnel / population *1000 
Number of Licensed Physicians & Physician Assistants 
per 1000 Population  The formula is:  
Number of licensed physicians & physician assistants per 
1000 population = (number of licensed physicians + number of 
licensed physician assistants) / population *1000 
Number of Beds  refer to the actual number of beds in 
health care institutions at year-end, also known as the actual 
number of beds or hospital beds, including regular beds, simple 
beds, monitoring beds, extra bed over 6 months, beds under 
disinfection or repairing, beds deactivated due to expansion or 
overhaul, not including neonatal beds, pre-delivery beds, 
inventory beds, observation beds, temporary beds and family 
accompany beds. 
Number of Beds of Health Care Institutions per 1000 
Population   the formula is: 
Number of beds of health care institutions per 1000 
population = number of beds of health care institutions at 
year-end / population at year-end *1000 
Morbidity Rate of Class A and B Notifiable Infectious 
Diseases  refers to the number of cases of Class A and B 
notifiable infectious diseases per 100 thousand population in 
the reference year. The formula is: 
Morbidity rate of Class A and B notifiable infectious 
diseases = number of cases of Class A and B notifiable 
infectious diseases / population *100000 
Mortality Rate of Class A and B Notifiable Infectious 
Diseases  refers to the number of deaths of Class A and B 
notifiable infectious diseases per 100 thousand population in 
the reference year. The formula is: 
Mortality rate of Class A and B notifiable infectious 
diseases= number of deaths of Class A and B notifiable 
 
 
729 
卫生和社会服务 
infectious diseases / population *100000 
Maternal Mortality Rate refers to number of maternal 
deaths per 100,000 maternal. It generally refers to maternal 
mortality from the start of pregnancy to 42 days after 
parturition, due to pregnancy or any treatment of pregnancy. 
However, accidental deaths are not included. According to 
internationally accepted approach, the live births are used to 
represent the total number of maternity. 
Mortality Rate of Children under 5  refers to the ratio 
of deaths of children under 5 in a year to the number of live 
births, and usually is presented by ‰. 
Neonatal Mortality Rate  refers to the ratio of neonatal 
deaths in a year to the number of live births, and usually is 
presented by ‰ . Neonatal deaths refer to the deaths of 
new-birth within 28 days (0-27 days). 
Total Health Expenditure  refers to the total monetary 
value of health resources in a country or a region mobilized by 
the whole society for public health, calculated based on source 
approach. It reflects the attention and affordability of the 
government, society and individuals for public health, and the 
major characteristics, justice and rationality of the health 
fund-raising model under certain economic circumstance. 
Government Health Expenditure  refers to the 
expenditure of the governments at all levels on medical and 
health care services, medical subsidies, health administration 
and health security management, and undertakings of family 
planning etc. 
Social Health Expenditure  refers to all inputs of the 
society except the government in public health, including the 
expenditures on social medical security, commercial health 
insurance, private expenditure on of medical and health care 
operation, social donation and contribution, and income from 
administrative fees etc.  
Out-of-Pocket 
Health 
Expenditure 
 
refers 
to 
expenditure in cash on various health services by rural and 
urban residents, including self payments of residents within 
various medical insurance systems. It can be categorized as 
cash expenditure on health by urban and rural residents and 
reflects their affordability of public health.  
Per Capita Health Expenditure refers to the ratio of total 
health expenditure in a year to the average population. 
Ratio of Health Expenditure to GDP refers to the ratio 
of total health expenditure in a year to GDP, which indicates 
the financial support given by a nation to health work and the 
attention paid on the public health and the health of residents 
by the government and society. 
Number 
of 
Civil 
Affairs 
Institutions 
with 
Accommodations  refers to the number of social service 
institutions that can provide accommodations for the elderly, 
the disabled, the mentally handicapped and the mentally ill, and 
children. It includes social welfare institutions, assistance and 
support institutions for people in extreme difficulty, other 
pension institutions, social welfare hospitals, children's welfare 
homes, assistance and protection centers for minors, relief and 
management institutions for vagrants and beggars, resettlement 
farms and other institutions providing accommodations. 
Number of Orphans  refers to juveniles under the age of 
18 that have lost or cannot find their parents. Orphans are 
affirmed by departments of civil affairs at county level 
according to relevant regulations, and receive orphan subsidies. 
Number of Children Adopted  refers to the total number 
of children adopted by families through adoption registration, 
including the total number of Chinese children adopted at home 
and abroad. 
Number of Urban Residents Entitled to Minimum 
Living Allowances refers to the number of urban residents who 
have been included in the scope of local urban minimum living 
guarantee and have been granted subsidies by the end of the 
reporting period. 
Number of Rural Residents Entitled to Minimum 
Living Allowances  refers to the number of rural residents 
who have been included in the scope of local rural minimum 
living guarantee and have been granted subsidies by the end of 
the reporting period. 
Rural Residents in Special Hardship  refers to the rural 
elderly, disabled persons and minors under the age of 16 who 
have no working ability, no source of income, no regular 
maintenance, upbringing and support obligations, or their legal 
obligations have no ability to perform their obligations, and are 
included in the scope of assistance and support for people in 
special hardship and enjoy support treatment according to law. 
Divorce Rate  refers to ratio of divorced couples to the 
annual average population in a certain region for the reference 
year, the formula is: 
number of couples divorced 
for the reference year
Divorce Rate
1000
annual average population
‰


 
Number of Employed Person with Disabilities  refers 
to the number of urban and rural persons with disability 
certificates who are actually employed through various forms 
of employment. 
 
 
