 
 
827 
城市、农村和区域发展
Explanatory Notes on Main Statistical Indicators 
 
 
 
Production Capacity of Water Supply   refers to the 
designed overall production capacity of water facilities, 
covering the four segments of water collection, purification, 
conveyance, and outflow through trunk pipelines. The capacity 
is determined mainly on the weakest of the above-mentioned 
four segments.  
Length of Water Supply Pipelines  refers to the total 
length of all municipal pipelines between the water pumps and 
the user service pipes, excluding pipelines newly installed but 
not in use yet, pipelines in the water factories, and pipelines in 
the users’ buildings. 
Total Volume of Urban Water Supply   refers to the 
total volume of water supplied by water-works (units) during 
the reference period, including both the effective water supply 
and loss during the water supply. 
Consumption of Water for Daily Use  includes 
consumption of water for public service use and consumption 
of water for household use. Consumption of water for public 
service use refers to water consumption for public service in 
the urban areas, including water consumption of administrative 
institutions, military barracks, public facilities, wholesale and 
retail, accommodation and catering industries and social 
service industry, etc. Consumption of water for household use 
refers to consumption of water for daily life of all households 
in cities, including households of urban residents and farmers, 
and public water supply stations. 
Consumption of Water for Production Use  refers to 
water consumption in the process of production and operation 
by production and operation units of agriculture, forestry, 
animal husbandry, fisheries, manufacturing, construction, 
transport, etc. in urban areas. 
Coverage Rate of Urban Population with Access to 
Tap Water refers to the ratio of the urban population with 
access to tap water to the total urban population at the end of 
reference period. The formula is:  
%
100
population
Urban 
 water
 tap
 to
access
 with 
population
Urban 
 water
 tap
 to
access
with 
 
population
urban 
 
of
 
Coverage


 
Production Capacity of Gaswork Gas  refers to the 
overall production capacity of the urban gasworks in gas 
generation, purification and delivery at the end of the reference 
period, excluding capacity of the reserved facilities. In general, 
it is determined by the designed capacity, and when actual 
production capacity is larger than the designed capacity, the 
capacity is determined by the actual measurement on the 
weakest segment in the production, purification and delivery.  
Length of Gas Pipelines  refers to the total length of 
pipelines in use between the outlet of the compressor of 
gas-work or outlet of gas stations and the leading pipe of users, 
excluding pipelines newly installed but not in use yet, pipelines 
within gasworks, delivery stations, LPG storage stations, 
refilling stations, gas-mixing stations and supply stations, and 
pipelines in the users’ buildings. 
Volume of Gas Supply   refers to the total volume of gas 
provided to users by gas-producing enterprises (units) during the 
reporting period, including the volume sold and the volume lost.  
Coverage Rate of Urban Population with Access to 
Gas   refers to the ratio of the urban population with access to 
gas to the total urban population at the end of the reference 
period. Gas here includes gaswork gas, natural gas and 
liquefied petroleum gas. The formula is: 
%
100
population
Urban 
gas
 
 to
access
with 
 
population
Urban 
gas
 
 to
access
 with 
population
urban  
 
of
 
rate
 
Coverage


 
Heating Capacity in Urban Areas refers to the designed 
capacity of heating enterprises (units) in supplying heating 
energy to urban users during the reference period. 
Quantity of Heat Supplied in Urban Areas  refers to 
the total quantity of heat from steam and hot water supplied to 
urban users by heating enterprises (units) during the reference 
period. 
Length of Urban Heating Pipelines  refers to the total 
length of steam or hot water pipelines for sources of heat to the 
leading pipelines of the buildings of the users, excluding 
internal pipelines in heat generating enterprises. 
Length of Paved Roads  refers to the length of roads 
with paved surface, including bridges and tunnels connected 
with roads.  Length of the roads is measured by the central 
lines.  
Urban Bridges  refer to bridges built to cross over 
natural or man-made barriers, including bridges over rivers, 
overpasses for traffic and for pedestrians, underpasses for 
pedestrians, etc.  
Length of Urban Sewage Pipes  refers to the total 
length of municipal general drainage, trunks, branch and 
inspection wells, connection wells, inlets and outlets, etc. 
Daily Disposal Capacity of Urban Sewage  refers to the 
designed 24-hour capacity of sewage disposal by the sewage 
treatment works or facilities. 
Area of Green Space  refers to the total area occupied 
for green projects at the end of the reference period, including 
public recreational green space, protection green land, land for 
squares, green land attached to institutions, and other green 
areas. 
Public Recreational Green Space  refers to green areas 
open to the public for amusement and rest with the facilities of 
amusement, rest and services. Its function also includes 
improving ecology, beautifying landscape, education and 
preventing and reducing disaster. 
Area under Cleaning Program refers to the area which 
 
 
828 
Urban, Rural and Regional Development 
are regularly cleaned at urban roads and public places 
(including urban roadways, pedestrian walkways, vehical 
tunnels, pedestrian underpasses, underground railway stations, 
lifted roads, pedestrians walk bridges, overpasses, plazas, 
parking lots and other facilities), at the end of the reference 
period,. If the cleaning is conducted at a location several times 
a day, the area that is cleaned with the largest space will be 
taken. 
Vehicles and Facilities Dedicated to Urban Cleaning 
and Environmental Sanitation  refer to vehicles and 
facilities dedicated for use in the operation, management and 
monitoring of environmental sanitation work. They include 
vehicles for road cleaning, washing, showering, ice removal, 
disposal of garbage and human wastes, sanitation monitoring 
and related activities. 
Public Buses and Trolley Buses per 10000 Population  
refers to the number of public buses and trolley buses, 
calculated on basis of per 10000 urban population.  
 
